system's efficiency in responding to factoid questions in Persian within the realm of general inquiries. The structure of this dataset includes columns for the paragraph, expected answer, question, and title. TABLE IV. STRUCTURE OF THE PERSIANQUAD DATASET gold_answer question paragraph The expected answer Question posed to the model Paragraph containing the question and answer PorsemanQuad Dataset: This dataset, extracted from a collection of regulations and guidelines from the University of Isfahan, consists of 50 pairs of questions and answers. The structure of this dataset includes columns for the question, answer, related paragraph, question type (factoid from a table or plain text), and the document name. Designed to evaluate the RAG system's performance when dealing with university regulations in Persian, this dataset enables a more focused assessment of factoid questions. The responses generated by the system are added to a separate column in this dataset and are evaluated. TABLE V. STRUCTURE OF THE PORSEMANQUAD DATASET paragraph question gold_answer question type source file Paragraph containing the question and answer Question posed to the model The expected answer Type of question in the categorization of RAG tasks and challenges Name of the document containing the paragraph The use of these two datasets allows for an initial and precise evaluation of the RAG system's performance in responding to factoid questions in Persian. This approach not only contributes to improving the quality of responses but also paves the way for future developments in the field of Persian natural language processing and intelligent question- answering systems. VI. CONCLUSION In this paper, we have identified and addressed the key challenges faced when applying RAG in low-resource contexts. As a potential case study, we concentrated in developing a practical RAG system for Persian Language. Through our analysis, we proposed targeted solutions for addressing several issues containing table embedding, PDF files reading, chunking optimization, embedding model selection, retrieved chunks formatting, prompt engineering, questions answering in the target language, LLM selection, precise evaluation framework and datasets, hyperparameters optimization and, hallucination reduction. Our experimental results show that the proposed solutions can significantly enhance RAG performance, making it a viable option for low-resource settings. These findings contribute to the broader adoption of retrieval-augmented models in areas with limited access to large-scale data and computational power. Moreover, the solutions proposed in this work offer practical insights for future research on optimizing RAG models in diverse, low resource domains, paving the way for more accessible and robust AI technologies globally. REFERENCES [1] P. Lewis et al., “Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge- Intensive NLP Tasks,” May 2020. [2] Y. Gao et al., “Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A Survey,” Dec. 2023. [3] Y. Huang and J. Huang, “A Survey on Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation for Large Language Models,” Apr. 2024. [4] N. Chirkova, D. Rau, H. Déjean, T. Formal, S. Clinchant, and V. Nikoulina, “Retrieval-augmented generation in multilingual settings,” Jul. 2024. [5] S. R. El-Beltagy and M. A. Abdallah, “Exploring Retrieval Augmented Generation in Arabic,” Aug. 2024. [6] H. Abdelazim, M. Tharwat, and A. Mohamed, “Semantic