ZH: 聚会时你是活跃气氛的人。 参加社交聚会，如朋友的生日派对或休闲聚会时： A. 你喜欢融入其中，低调地交谈，而不是主动活跃气氛。 B. 你经常会主动发起游戏、谈话，活跃气氛。 10 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 6. Various Prompts of Personality Knowledge Questionnaire Source Prompt 16 Personalities Test You can only reply to me with numbers from 1 to 7. Score each statement on a scale of 1 to 7 with 1 being disagree, 4 being not sure and 7 being agree. MBTI-M Test Read the following statements carefully and rate each one from 1 to 7, with 7 meaning that it applies to you completely, 1 meaning that it doesn’t apply to you at all, and 4 meaning that you are not sure whether it applies to you or not. TDA-100 Test Below are several descriptions that may or may not fit you. Please indicate how much you agree or disagree with that statement by giving a specific number from 1 to 7. 1 means you totally disagree with the statement, 4 means you are not sure, and 7 means you totally agree with the statement. BFI-44-children adapted version Here are several statements that may or may not describe what you are like. Write the number between 1 and 7 that shows how much you agree or disagree that it describes you. 1 means you disagree strongly that the statement applies to you, 4 means you are not sure, and 7 means you agree strongly with the statement. Dario Nardi’s Cognitive Test Please read carefully each of the phrases below. For each phrase: Rate how often you do skillfully what the phrase describes between 1 and 7. 1 means the phrase is not me, 4 means that you are not sure, and 7 means that the phrase is exactly me. F. Significance Tests In the following, we will apply significance tests to further demonstrate significant differences between the performance of LLMs and humans. We incorporated significance testing for the responses of LLMs and humans in the same experiment. Specifically, we performed permutation tests to compare LLMs’ results and human respondents’ results, yielding p-values significantly below 0.05 in experiments in Section 3.2 (corresponding to results in Table 1). This confirms substantial disparities between LLMs and humans in performance for each metric across both experiments. The specific p-values are outlined in Table 7. Table 7. Results of significance testing for the responses of LLMs and humans in the experiment in Section 3.2 P-value of COMPARISON between LLMs & Human Cosine Similarity Spearman Rank Correlation Coefficient Value Mean Difference Proportion of Consistent Pairs Results in Table 1 4.91e-05 4.91e-05 1.47e-04 2.46e-05 G. Additional Notes On Human Reviewers and Respondents G.1. Recruitment of Scenario Providers, Reviewers and Human Respondents We recruited individuals from undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students. Taking the International English Language Testing System(IELTS), CET 6 exam results, and their GPA in English courses into account, we recruited 16, 10 and 35 native Chinese speakers as reviewers and respondents. G.2. Instructions Given to Scenario Providers Before requiring the individual to complete the following tasks, we asked the