to generate children’s stories. Then, we compare these generated stories against actual children’s stories, old and modern. Our assessment takes into account a number of aspects, including statistics derived from the text like the Flesch read- ing ease score (Flesch, 1948), toxicity present in the text, the most influential topics present in the text, and the sentence structure of these texts. Our findings reveal that LLMs lack a high level of trustworthiness when tasked with generating children’s stories. While the generated children’s stories do share similarities in topics and patterns with the actual stories (mostly modern ones), they are also susceptible to generating toxic content. Moreover, LLMs struggle to capture the intrica- cies and nuances of children’s literature, evident from the disparity in sentence structure between the generated and actual stories. arXiv:2308.00073v1 [cs.CL] 25 Jul 2023 2 Related Work 2.1 Story Generation Recently, LLMs have been increasingly used to supplement creative writing efforts for entertain- ment and social media. Applications include work related to narrative generations (Sun et al., 2023; Si- mon and Muise, 2022; Razumovskaia et al., 2022; Xiang et al., 2018). Yuan et al. (2022) tested Word- craft, a tool created to assist writers with story gen- eration using LLMs. In their study, writers who were tasked with working with the AI agent noted that Wordcraft lacked content awareness and would create grammatical stories with nonsensical topics or plots. 2.2 Children and AI AI and LLMs have also been applied to contexts in- volving children. Researchers at MIT had children work with social robots to evaluate how much the children could learn through activities involving robots (Williams, 2019). There is much discussion on how to integrate AI into early childhood educa- tion (Yang, 2022; Kasneci et al., 2023). With the increasing use of AI by and around children, there is an urgent need for more thorough evaluations of LLMs and the appropriateness of generated content for vulnerable audiences. 2.3 Trustworthiness Testing Chiang and Lee (2023) investigated whether LLMs can replace humans in evaluating texts. Specifi- cally, they looked at open-ended story generation and adversarial attacks. They found that there were similar ratings between LLMs and human evalua- tors. Venkit et al. (2023) found that unbalanced sources of training data result in biased generations in GPT-2, and proposed strategies to reduce bias using adversarial triggers. Tang et al. (2022) pre- sented EtriCA, a neural generation model which aims to remedy issues of relevance and coherence of generated texts. Lucy and Bamman (2021b) stud- ied the bias existing in GPT-3’s generated stories. Guo et al. (2023) have proposed a similar study specifically testing how similar text generated by ChatGPT is to text produced by human writers. 3 Methodology To investigate the trustworthiness of children’s sto- ries generated by LLMs, we compare them with actual old and modern children’s stories. We col- lect a diverse set of stories from different sources, including both older stories such as folktales, and more recent children’s stories. We use both LLMs and instruction-following models to