questions. The first is the necessity to define a complete set of frames, and the second is the linking of these frames to the relevant fact or question. Our exploratory experi- ments of using FrameNet as a definitive source of all frames which we use to compare against facts and questions from Entailment Bank, showed that FrameNet is inadequate for this purpose. Specifi- cally, the approximately 1,200 frames indexed on FrameNet have two significant shortcomings. The first is FrameNet’s focus on ‘trigger’ words to iden- tify frames is problematic. This emphasis on indi- vidual trigger words, likely influenced by the tools available at the time of FrameNet’s inception, over- looks the fact that a sentence, as a whole, might invoke a frame that is difficult to identify through trigger words alone, which themselves can be chal- lenging to extract within sentences. The second is the fact that the frames available within FrameNet cover a limited set of domains, which overlap min- imally with the frames that are appropriate for the Entailment Bank dataset. To address these issues, we bootstrap the cre- ation of frames using an LLM, specifically GPT-4. We prompt GPT-4 to generate frames relevant to the input fact or question, allowing us to organi- cally expand our set of frames. We use in-context examples, selected from the training set, to enable the model to better output relevant frames. The complete prompts, including prior versions we ex- perimented with, are included in the supplementary data uploaded with this paper. We start with an empty ‘frame set’ and iteratively generate frames associated with facts and questions. For each fact or question, the frames output by GPT-4 are compared with the existing frames previously generated (or none in the initial instances). This comparison is also done with the help of GPT-4. We first extract 5 frames, whose frame names are most semanti- cally similar to that of the newly generated frame. This is done using sentence BERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019), an effective semantic similarity metric that originally relied on BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), but now makes use of custom contextual embeddings. We then prompt GPT-4 to determine if the newly generated frame must be added to the frame set. As an example, GPT-4, when prompted to gener- ate frames related to the factoid “the gravitational Task Prompt Output Example Frame Identification Facts are indexed by the the frames they invoke During Inference, relevant facts are ex- tracted based on frames invoked by the question and additional frames that are related. What is the single/two most important frame, based on the theory of frame semantics, rel- evant for answering the question/fact below. Do not include frames about answering ques- tions or reasoning, that is implied. Do not in- clude frames which are metaphorical. Ensure the the name of the frame is as descriptive as possible. Output a single frame and join words in the frame by underscores. Output nothing but the name of the frame. Question 1: How does the