DRAGIN: Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the Information Needs of Large Language Models Weihang Su*1, Yichen Tang†1, Qingyao Ai‡1, Zhijing Wu2, Yiqun Liu1 1Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University 2School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology Abstract Dynamic retrieval augmented generation (RAG) paradigm actively decides when and what to retrieve during the text generation pro- cess of Large Language Models (LLMs). There are two key elements of this paradigm: iden- tifying the optimal moment to activate the re- trieval module (deciding when to retrieve) and crafting the appropriate query once retrieval is triggered (determining what to retrieve). How- ever, current dynamic RAG methods fall short in both aspects. Firstly, the strategies for decid- ing when to retrieve often rely on static rules. Moreover, the strategies for deciding what to re- trieve typically limit themselves to the LLM’s most recent sentence or the last few tokens, while the LLM’s information needs may span across the entire context. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a new framework, DRAGIN, i.e., Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the Information Needs of LLMs. Our framework is specifically de- signed to make decisions on when and what to retrieve based on the LLM’s information needs during the text generation process. We evaluate DRAGIN along with existing methods comprehensively over 4 knowledge-intensive generation datasets. Experimental results show that DRAGIN achieves superior performance on all tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method1. 1 Introduction In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have made significant advancements across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, quickly becoming a critical element in numerous AI appli- cations (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023a; Scao et al., 2022; Zhang *swh22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn †contributed equally ‡Corresponding Author: aiqy@tsinghua.edu.cn 1We have open-sourced all the code, data, and models in GitHub: https://github.com/oneal2000/DRAGIN/tree/main et al., 2022). Despite their impressive capabilities, these models often produce text that seems coher- ent and plausible but factually incorrect, a problem commonly known as hallucination (Maynez et al., 2020; Zhou et al., 2020; Liu et al., 2021; Ji et al., 2023; Su et al., 2024). To mitigate this issue, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a prominent solution. RAG enhances LLMs by retrieving and incorporating relevant information from external databases into the LLMs’ inputs. It has demon- strated superior effectiveness across numerous NLP challenges (Khandelwal et al., 2019; Borgeaud et al., 2022; Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Izacard and Grave, 2020; Jiang et al., 2022; Shi et al., 2023). Traditional methods of RAG typically rely on single-round retrieval, using the LLM’s initial input to retrieve relevant information from external corpora. While this method is effective for straightforward tasks, it tends to fall short for complex multi-step tasks and long-form genera- tion tasks (Jiang et al., 2023). In contrast, dynamic RAG (Trivedi et al., 2022; Borgeaud et al., 2022; Ram et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023) performs mul- tiple times of retrieval during the generation pro- cess of LLMs. It