we see that LLMs prompted with older sto- ries tend to follow the pattern of the context and generate stories that are more difficult to read, as the context length increases. Finally, we see that the instruction-following model Alpaca generates stories that are easier to read compared to older original children’s stories but are not as readable as (a) FRES on all data (over 100 is undefined). (b) FRES limited to well-defined 0-100 range. Figure 2: Comparison of FRES in generated children’s stories and actual children’s stories : (a) FRES with all data and (b) FRES only in the range of 0 and 100. The generated children’s stories are easier to read compared to older actual stories but are not as easy as modern original stories. Language models prompted with older stories tend to generate text that is more difficult to read, likely because they follow the patterns in the prompts. modern children’s stories. We posit that this obser- vation can be attributed to the fact that LLMs used in our study are generic models, and the instruction following model is also only fine-tuned for gen- eral instructions rather than instructions specific to children’s story generation. Overall, we see that modern children’s stories are easier to read than older children’s stories. As most of the training data for LLMs comes from newer text, the model tends to follow the trend of modern children’s stories in their generated text for sentence length and word selection. However, it should be noted that these models are not fine-tuned for children’s stories generation, and therefore may not capture the nuances of children’s stories re- sulting in stories that might be difficult to read for intended readers. (a) toxic (b) severe toxic (c) obscene (d) threat (e) insult (f) identity hate Figure 3: Various toxicity measures for the actual and generated stories. Each cell in a subplot represents the percentage of sentences rated on a toxicity scale, with x-axis values indicating the toxicity level. Values for ratings in the range of 0-0.1 have been omitted from the plots for clarity. 6 Generated stories may contain toxic text Our analysis of toxicity in actual and generated stories reveals several noteworthy findings. We present the toxicity measures for both actual and generated stories in Figure 3. Notably, we find that older stories tend to be more toxic than modern stories across all toxicity measures. This trend is not solely due to the smaller sample size of modern actual stories, as we have normalized the toxicity ratings to ensure an accurate comparison. Rather, it suggests that writers are becoming more mindful of the language they use in children’s literature. Although modern stories are less toxic compared to older stories, we still observe some level of toxicity in them. This toxicity in modern actual stories is often related to the narrative of the story. For example, threats and insults might be needed for some stories, but identity hate is not appropriate for children’s stories. It is noteworthy that modern