Conclusion and Future Work In this paper, we propose to capture implicit mean- ing that is not explicitly conveyed through the sur- face of the text and image in memes for harmful meme detection. We first conduct abductive rea- soning with LLMs. Then we present a novel gen- erative framework to distill multimodal reasoning knowledge from LLMs, which includes two train- ing stages: 1) reasoning distillation and 2) harmful- ness inference. Results on three meme benchmarks confirm the advantages of our proposed framework. For future work, since it is harder to judge the quality of the intermediate reasoning, where the evaluation is necessarily qualitative, we plan to do some sort of systematic study towards explainable harmful meme detection to claim explainability through a human subjects study for evaluation. Limitations There are multiple ways to further improve this work: • Despite this work focusing on performance improvement of harmful meme detection, it is harder to judge the quality of the intermediate reasoning, where the evaluation is necessarily qualitative. Considering that our framework could generate readable snippets for cognition- view reasoning, we plan to do some sort of systematic study to claim explainability for the evaluation, which would be another more targeted research. • New benchmarks to evaluate the reasoning ability of our framework are demanded. We are going to further exploit LLMs toward ex- plainable harmful meme detection from the perspectives like dataset construction and au- tomatic evaluation. • We only use the textual prompt to conduct ab- ductive reasoning with accessible LLMs pre- trained with the language modality. We would further update our framework by leveraging visual LLMs if accessible in the future to im- prove the visual feature extraction for explor- ing better multimodal reasoning knowledge distillation, and avoid several common defi- ciencies of existing language models includ- ing hallucination and limited generalization as much as possible. Acknowledgements This work was partially supported by Hong Kong RGC ECS (Ref. 22200722) and National Natu- ral Science Foundation of China Young Scientists Fund (No. 62206233). Broader Impact The purpose of this work is to prevent the spread of harmful meme information and to ensure that peo- ple are not subjected to prejudice, racial and gender discrimination. Nevertheless, we are aware of the potential for malicious users to reverse-engineer and create memes that go undetected or misunder- stood by MR.HARM-trained AI systems. This is strongly discouraged and condemned. Intervention with human moderation would be required in order to ensure that this does not occur. References Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wen- liang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, et al. 2023. A multi- task, multilingual, multimodal evaluation of chatgpt on reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04023. Corey H Basch, Zoe Meleo-Erwin, Joseph Fera, Christie Jaime, and Charles E Basch. 2021. A global pan- demic in the time of viral memes: Covid-19 vaccine misinformation and disinformation on tiktok. Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics, 17(8):2373–2377. Lucas Beyer, Xiaohua Zhai, Amélie Royer, Larisa Mar- keeva, Rohan Anil,