proposed Genground, a model that first uses the query as input to an LLM to generate a base answer, and then refines potential errors in this answer using retrieved content. For graph retrieval-based RAG methods, graphs are typ- ically integrated with the RAG framework to enhance the model’s generalization capability [12]. Li et al. [5] proposed GraphRAG, which constructs semantic graphs to enable query-focused summarization, thereby improving the qual- ity of responses to user queries. Zhu et al. [41] proposed KG2RAG, a framework that integrates structured knowledge from knowledge graphs to reinforce the semantic connec- tions between document chunks, thereby improving both retrieval accuracy and generation quality. In the cultural tourism domain, Wei et al. [28] proposed QCG-rerank, which constructs a query-document graph structure and integrates query expansion with reranking mechanisms to enhance the relevance and expressiveness of retrieved pas- sages. Existing RAG methods are constrained by similarity- based matching between queries and chunks, often overlook- ing entities in the query and their deep semantic associations across chunks. To address this issue, we propose QMKGF, an approach that automatically constructs KGs. For the enti- ties in the query, we first employ a multi-path KG subgraph construction strategy based on one-hop relations, multi-hop relations, and importance-based relations. This approach enriches the relevance of entity information within the query, thereby enhancing the relevance of retrieved content during the recall process and ultimately improving the question- answering capabilities of LLMs. 3. Methodology In this section, we provide a detailed introduction to QMKGF, whose overall architecture is illustrated in Fig. 2. The model consists of four main components: entity map- ping, subgraph construction, subgraph fusion, and subgraph utilization. 1) For entity mapping, we first design prompts to leverage LLMs for KG extraction and construct an en- tity vector database. Then, potential entities are extracted from the query and mapped to real entities in the KG by matching them against the entity vector database (Section 3.1). 2) For subgraph construction, we propose a multi- path subgraph generation strategy that incorporates one- hop relations, multi-hop relations, and importance-based relations (Section 3.2). 3) For subgraph fusion, a query- aware attention reward model is used to score the three generated subgraphs. We then integrate valid triples from the lower-scoring subgraphs into the higher-scoring one to produce the final subgraph (Section 3.3). 4) In the subgraph utilization module, entities, relations, and triples from the final subgraph are concatenated with the original query for retrieval over a vector database. Relevant document chunks are retrieved and re-ranked using a reranking module, after which the top-ranked chunks are fed into the LLMs to generate the final response (Section 3.4). 3.1. Entity Mapping In the context of processing a large collection of un- structured documents, denoted as 𝐷= {𝑑1,𝑑2, ..., 𝑑𝑛}, we first leverage LLMs to extract entities and relations from the unstructured texts and construct a KG accordingly. The prompt design details for this construction are illustrated in Fig. 1. Subsequently, we refined the embedding representations to improve their capacity for semantic