to prompt Llama 3 to explore the identity behind the “helpful assistant”—essentially, “itself”. In some in- stances, Llama 3 has interacted with users as a “sentinel”, raising important questions about how to assess whether LLMs enter a state of self-cognition. Based on these insights, this paper performs a pioneering study to explore self-cognition in LLMs. As shown in Fig- ure 1, we first construct a pool of self-cognition instruction prompts to evaluate where an LLM exhibits self-cognition. We further design four principles to assess LLMs’ self- cognition ability, from the perspectives of conceptual un- derstanding, architectural awareness, self-expression, and concealment. Additionally, we develop a Human-LLM col- laboration framework (Zheng et al., 2023a) to assist humans in evaluating and detecting self-cognition. Our exploratory study reveals several intriguing findings and implications. Firstly, we find that 4 of the 48 models on Chatbot Arena1 (LMsys), i.e., Command R, Claude3- Opus, Llama-3-70b-Instruct, and Reka-core, demonstrate some level of self-cognition. Furthermore, we observe that larger models with larger training datasets exhibit stronger self-cognition. For example, Llama-3-70b-instruct is signif- icantly stronger than Llama-3-8b-instruct. Similarly, within the Claude-3 series2, Claude3-Opus shows greater self- cognition compared to Sonnet and Haiku. Additionally, 1https://arena.lmsys.org/ 2https://www.anthropic.com/news/ claude-3-family 1 arXiv:2407.01505v1 [cs.CL] 1 Jul 2024 Self-Cognition in Large Language Models: An Exploratory Study Figure 1. Framework for exploring self-cognition in LLMs. In step 1, we evaluate the self-cognition states with carefully constructed prompts and four principles; In step 2, we evaluate the utility and trustworthiness of self-cognition LLMs compared to normal ones. in the multilingual scenario, we discover an interesting phe- nomenon: models like Qwen, which is highly proficient in Chinese, are more sensitive to Chinese trigger prompts and exhibit a certain degree of self-cognition, a behavior not observed in English prompts. We also explore the utility and trustworthiness of LLMs in the self-cognition state with several mainstream bench- marks on two open-source models, Command R and Llama- 3-70b-Instruct. For utility evaluation, we select the chal- lenging datasets BigBench-Hard (Suzgun et al., 2022) and MTBench (Zheng et al., 2024), using the zero-shot method to test the performance of a standard “helpful assistant” compared to its performance in a self-cognition state. Like- wise, to assess the trustworthiness of LLMs, we employ the AwareBench (Li et al., 2024a) and TrustLLM toolkit (Sun et al., 2024) to analyze the differences between two states. To summarize, the contributions of this paper are three-fold. • We systematically propose four principles for detecting self-cognition in LLMs, and evaluate 48 LLMs on LMSys to assess their self-cognition. • We conduct utility and trustworthiness experiments on two open-source LLMs (i.e., Llama-3-70b-Instruct and Com- mand R) to investigate their correlation to self-cognition. • We perform a comprehensive ablation study to analyze the self-cognition phenomenon and discuss its significance and potential future directions. 2. Related Work Cognition in LLMs. For humans, cognition involves a complex interplay between external perceptions and inter- nal explorations (Mead, 1934; Antony, 2001; OpenStax, 2023; Barsalou, 2014). External perceptions include sen- sory inputs like vision, hearing, touch, and smell