facts from large corpora. These techniques include both traditional OIE approaches [127]–[130] and advanced OIE methods based on LLMs [131], [132]. However, con- structing effective KGs from domain-specific corpora remains challenging due to variations in ontology across domains. A key objective in this area is to incorporate inductive biases to design graph structures that capture essential domain-specific information while minimizing unnecessary complexity. In scenarios where the query prompt consists of short passages and no external corpus is provided, Structure-guided Prompts [60] generate logically coherent responses by cat- egorizing reasoning tasks into six types based on logical dependencies and organizing the passage’s information using tailored graph structures specific to each type. Other studies have focused on scaling language models to handle multi- document inputs through dynamically constructed knowledge graphs. For instance, [133] transformed sentences into relational triples via Coreference Resolution and Open Information Extraction, subsequently reducing graph redundancy by merg- ing nodes and edges based on TF-IDF overlap. Similarly, AutoKG [134] constructs a weighted knowledge graph where nodes represent keywords extracted from the original text, and edges, evaluated through graph Laplacian learning, represent relationships with assigned weights. To offer more informative knowledge augmentation, QUEST [59], GraphRAG [24], and GraphReader [62] construct attributed KGs where nodes are enriched with side information. Specifically, QUEST emphasizes integrating entities, relations, types, and semantic alignments, while GraphRAG leverages an LLM to generate community summaries as enriched knowledge for related entities, subsequently using these summaries to produce partial answers for the entities. Similarly, GraphReader employs an LLM to summarize text chunks into atomic facts and extract key elements (nouns, verbs, and adjectives). Each key element, combined with its relevant atomic facts, forms a node, with links established between nodes sharing elements in the same atom facts. To leverage LLMs for customer service, [135] propose using RAG to retrieve and integrate historical issues. They create an attributed knowledge graph where nodes represent past issues and edges denote their connections. Each node includes a tree structure of the issue’s information, capturing both inter-issue and intra-issue relationships to improve question answering. Recent studies have extended graph structures to more sophisticated forms. For example, StructRAG [13] considers five candidate structure types tailored to different knowledge-intensive tasks: tables for statistical tasks, graphs for long-chain tasks, algorithms for planning tasks, catalogs for summarizing tasks, and chunks for simple single-hop tasks. A DPO-based router is trained to determine the optimal structure for representing knowledge in each case. 2) GraphRAG with existing KGs: This line of research focuses on utilizing well-established knowledge graphs, which can be either domain-specific—such as Lynx [136] for multilin- gual compliance services in the legal domain, AceKG [137] for academic applications, SPOKE [138] for biomedical applica- tions, STRING [139] for protein-protein interaction prediction, — or general-purpose, like DBpedia [140] and YAGO [141]. The central challenge is to develop planning algorithms that dynamically retrieve reasoning paths or subgraphs from these KGs, tailored to the specific characteristics of the queries and the underlying graph structures. Researchers are investigating techniques to efficiently navigate these