ﬁlters CONV 7X1 tf.nn.conv1d input - - ﬁlters CONV 15X1 tf.nn.conv1d input - - ﬁlters CONV 31X1 tf.nn.conv1d input - - ﬁlters DCONV 3X1 tf.nn.depthwise_conv2d input - - ﬁlters DCONV 7X1 tf.nn.depthwise_conv2d input - - ﬁlters DCONV 15X1 tf.nn.depthwise_conv2d input - - ﬁlters DCONV 31X1 tf.nn.depthwise_conv2d input - - ﬁlters Table 2: TensorFlow (TF) Primitives Vocabulary. “Name” is the name of the operation in our search space. “TF Function” is the TensorFlow function that the name is mapped to when a DNA instruction is being converted to a line of TensorFlow code. “Argument Mapping” describes how the values in a DNA’s argument set are mapped to the corresponding TensorFlow function arguments. This vocabulary is largely constructed from the lowest level TF operations needed to create Transformers (see Appendix A.5). We additionally extend those operations to include adjacent operations; for example, we extend MAX to also include MIN, extend RED SUM to include RED PRODUCT, and extend CONV 1X1 to include CONV 3X1. We also add commonly used math primitives such as SIN and ABS. 14 A.2 Constructing TensorFlow Graphs TensorFlow graphs are built from DNA programs as described in Section 2 of the main text. Here we provide additional implementation details. Relative Dimensions: We use relative dimensions [13] instead of absolute dimensions for each instruction’s “dimension size” argument. This allows us to resize the models to ﬁt within our parameter limits (32M to 38M parameters). The vocabulary for these relative dimensions is [1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 32, 48, 64]. This vocabulary was not tuned. Values Bank: For “constant” and “dimension size” argument ﬁelds, we create a shared bank of values that each instruction references. The constants bank holds 2 values and the dimension sizes bank holds 6 values; these numbers were not tuned. Instead of each instruction possessing their own individual values for these arguments, they instead hold an index to these shared banks. This allows multiple instructions to share the same value and to change simultaneously when that value is changed. For example, each of the individual attention multi-head projections for Q, K and V start off sharing the same output dimension size so that they all change simultaneously if that value changes. See A.4 for an example of how these bank values are mutated. Causal Masking: An important part of teacher-forced language model training is that positions cannot “see” the token they are trying to predict. Each position should only get information from previous positions, otherwise the model will be degenerate when the targets are not provided. To enforce this causal constraint we add additional overhead to operations that move information spatially to mask out any information from future positions. For example, when applying convolutions we follow the standard practice of shifting the inputs spatially by (KERNEL WIDTH −1) so that each position only receives information from previous positions. Branching: To enable multi-head capabilities for the Transformer search seed, we add a meta argument to our instructions called “branching.” This argument can take any value