MoE model for general tasks. However, as a pre-training dataset, C4 spans a wide array of do- mains, posing challenges when pruning experts for domain-specific tasks (e.g., models tailored for mathematics (Yu et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024)). We evaluate the 5-shot performance of the C4 pruned MoE LLM model with r = 6 on math tasks (GSM8K) (Cobbe et al., 2021), result- ing in a performance degradation plummeting from 58.61 to 41.02 for the Mixtral 8x7B model. To address this challenge, we propose to shift the calibration dataset from C4 to the training set of MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021), to concentrate the pruning process on the mathematics domain. Remark. For a better comparison between gen- eral tasks and domain-specific tasks, we visualize the distribution of pruned experts selected by C4 and MATH, as shown in Fig. 4. For both the Mix- tral 8x7B and Mixtral 8x7B Instruct model, identi- cal expert combinations are observed in only four specific layers. This suggests that there are dis- tinct differences in the distributions of pre-training datasets and domain-specific datasets. Further de- tails and discussions are provided in Sec. 4.2. 3.3 Dynamic Skipping During Inference Our expert pruning strategy effectively reduces memory consumption during model deployment. However, each token is still processed by k selected experts, without a reduction in runtime FLOPs. In- tuitively, not all tokens require the selection of all top-k experts during the token generation process. Consequently, we introduce a scheme that dynam- ically skips certain experts for individual token inference, to further enhance inference efficiency. As shown in Fig. 2, during the inference pro- cess, top-k experts are chosen with routing weights w = {we0, we1, . . . , wek−1} for each token x in an MoE layer. For simplicity, we assume k = 2 (as in Mixtral 8x7B)2. Our proposed dynamic expert skipping method is illustrated in Fig. 3 (b). With- out loss of generality, assume experts with indices e0 and e1 are chosen, and we1 < we0. To accel- erate inference speed, if we1 < βwe0, we do not assign x to expert e1, where β is a hyper-parameter separately set for each MoE layer. In our imple- mentation, we forward the model over the sampled calibration data and set β as the median value of we1 we0 for each MoE layer. The dynamic skipping scheme can be carried out on the fly to speed up inference, and can be used simultaneously with expert pruning. In our experiments, we observe a 1.2× to 1.3× inference speedup with r = 6. 4 Experiment In this section, a series of experiments are carried out to evaluate our proposed methods. We intro- duce experiments of expert pruning for general tasks in Sec. 4.1, domain-specific tasks in Sec. 4.2, and dynamic expert skipping results in Sec. 4.3. 4.1 Expert Pruning for General Tasks In this subsection, we evaluate the proposed expert pruning method on some general tasks, which can comprehensively reflect the knowledge retention of the model after