In contrast, our survey systematically investigates the role of RL throughout the entire LLM training pipeline (ranging from pre-training and alignment fine-tuning reasoning) and proposes an organizational framework that, to the best of our knowledge, has not been comprehensively addressed in prior research. Table 2 summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of our survey compared with other representative surveys. 1.2 Contribution Summary This survey provides a structured review of RL techniques for LLMs, with three distinctive contributions: • Lifecycle Organization: We systematically cover the full lifecycle of RL for LLMs, detailing each stage of the process, from pre-training, alignment, to reinforcement for reasoning. In doing so, we clarify the objectives, methodologies, and challenges encountered at each phase. This organization helps in understanding how RL techniques are applied and refined throughout the LLM development lifecycle. • Advanced RLVR Technology Focus: This paper highlights state-of-the-art approaches in RLVR. We provide an in-depth analysis of the experimental phenomena and cutting-edge applications of RLVR, exploring the methodologies used to ensure that rewards are objective and verifiable. Additionally, we discuss how verifiable rewards contribute to improved model performance and alignment, showcasing the strengths and limitations of RLVR in real-world applications. • Consolidated Resources: We summarize the datasets, benchmarks, and open-source frameworks that are critical for RL-based experimentation, evaluation, and practical implementation in LLMs. By aggregating this information, we provide a valuable resource for future researchers looking to experiment with RL techniques in the context of LLMs. The inclusion of these resources enhances the reproducibility and transparency of RL-driven LLM research. To provide an organizational roadmap, Figure 1 presents a comprehensive taxonomy, which divides existing approaches into five branches: pre-training, alignment, RLVR, datasets & benchmarks, and open-source frameworks. As outlined in Figure 2, our review is organized around the full RL lifecycle for LLMs, with a particular emphasis on RL with verifiable Manuscript submitted to ACM 6 Keliang Liu et al. rewards. In summary, this survey delivers a lifecycle-based synthesis of methods, with particular emphasis on RLVR, complemented by practical resources for research and application. RLVR Reasoning (Section 4) Datasets & Benchmarks (Section 5) Pre-training & Alignment (Section 3) Tools & frameworks (Section 6) Alignment bench Reasoning bench Synthetic dataset Alignment & reasoning dataset User input ParallelWork Auto Mapping Resource Pool Physical Devices Reasoning model R1 o1 GRPO paradigm RL4pre-training Alignment with human intentions RL Enhanced LLMs Fig. 2. Key components in RL-enhanced LLMs. This figure illustrates the key components and their interactions within the lifecycle of RL-enhanced LLMs. Driven by RL frameworks and toolkits, RL algorithms participate in the pre-training, alignment, and reasoning enhancement training of LLMs, and are validated through test benchmarks. 2 Preliminaries of Reinforcement Learning Reinforcement learning enables agents to learn optimal policies through interaction with the environment, aiming to maximize cumulative rewards. A typical RL problem can be modelled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), which consists of a state space, an action space, a state transition probability distribution, and a reward function. At each timestep, the agent selects an action 𝑎based