Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models ATTACKS ON THIRD-PARTY APIS OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS Wanru Zhao University of Cambridge wz341@cam.ac.uk Vidit Khazanchi Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay viditk0812@gmail.com Haodi Xing University of Melbourne xdk129@163.com Xuanli He University College London xuanli.he@ucl.ac.uk Qiongkai Xu∗ Macquarie University University of Melbourne qiongkai.xu@mq.edu.au Nicholas Donald Lane University of Cambridge ndl32@cam.ac.uk ABSTRACT Large language model (LLM) services have recently begun offering a plugin ecosystem to interact with third-party API services. This innovation enhances the capabilities of LLMs, but it also introduces risks, as these plugins developed by various third parties cannot be easily trusted. This paper proposes a new attacking framework to examine security and safety vulnerabilities within LLM platforms that incorporate third-party services. Applying our framework specifically to widely used LLMs, we identify real-world malicious attacks across various domains on third-party APIs that can imperceptibly modify LLM outputs. The paper discusses the unique challenges posed by third-party API integration and offers strategic possibilities to improve the security and safety of LLM ecosystems moving forward. Our code is released at https://github.com/vk0812/Third-Party-Attacks-on-LLMs. 1 INTRODUCTION Recently, the advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) (such as GPT (Brown et al., 2020; OpenAI et al., 2023), Gemini, and Llama (Touvron et al., 2023a;b), etc.) have shown impressive outcomes and are expected to revolutionize various industrial sectors, such as finance, healthcare and marketing. These models are capable of performing tasks, such as summarization, question answering, data analysis, and generating human-like content. Their proficiency in these areas makes them invaluable for enhancing work processes and supporting decision-making efforts. Integrating these models into practical real-world applications presents several challenges. First, there is the hazard of the models relying on outdated information or generating content that is inaccurate or potentially misleading (Schick et al., 2023; Qin et al., 2023), a critical issue in fields where up-to-date data is essential, such as weather forecasting, news broadcasting, and stock trading. Furthermore, customizing these models to specialized domains, such as law or finance, demands extra domain-specific resources to meet precise requirements. Additionally, although LLMs may achieve expert-level performance in certain tasks, broadening their application across various domains or for complex reasoning tasks remains difficult (Wei et al., 2022). Enhancing their effectiveness often requires fine-tuning, retraining, or comprehensive instructions, which complicates their deployment and constrains their utility for tasks that require advanced skills. To address these limitations, one strategy is to integrate third-party Application Programming In- terfaces (APIs) with the LLMs. By accessing real-time information (Yao et al., 2022), conducting complex calculations (Schick et al., 2023), and executing specialized tasks such as image recogni- tion (Patil et al., 2023; Qin et al., 2023), this integration broadens the functional scope of LLMs. It significantly boosts their efficiency and performance, enabling them to manage specialized tasks more adeptly without requiring bespoke training. For example, OpenAI’s GPT Store significantly expands the operational capabilities of LLMs by hosting over 3 million custom ChatGPT variants. ∗Corresponding author. 1 arXiv:2404.16891v1 [cs.CR] 24 Apr 2024 Published at ICLR 2024