Bigcodebench: Benchmarking code genera- tion with diverse function calls and complex instruc- tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.15877. A Data Card Following previous work (Bender and Friedman, 2018; Gebru et al., 2021; Zhuo et al., 2024), we provide the datacard for TOOLRET, where we tend to summarize and centralize all information that might be relevant for the benchmark analysis. (i) The purpose of this benchmark: This benchmark is proposed to comprehensively evaluate the information retrieval (IR) models on tool retrieval tasks. On top of TOOLRET, we find that existing IR models, despite achieving strong performance in conventional IR benchmarks such as MTEB and BEIR, still suffer from substantial challenges in tool retrieval tasks. The poor retrieval quality further degrades the end-to-end task pass rate of tool-use LLMs. Thus, we believe that the TOOLRET reveals the importance of tool retrieval in building better tool-use LLMs, and can be used as a comprehensive and fair benchmark in facilitating the development of tool retrieval models. (ii) How will the dataset be distributed (e.g., Tarball on Website or Github)? The proposed benchmark TOOLRET will be released to the public, and hosted on GitHub and Hugging Face. The TOOLRET will be managed and maintained by our research team. (iii) Will the dataset be updated (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete instances)? Yes. If we include more tasks or find any errors, we will correct the dataset hosted on Hugging Face and GitHub and update the results in the leaderboard accordingly. It will be updated on our website. (iv) Will the training dataset TOOLRET-train will be released publicly. Yes, the proposed training dataset TOOLRET-train will be released to the public, and hosted on GitHub and Hugging Face. B Details of Benchmark B.1 Dataset collections TOOLRET is a heterogeneous benchmark that integrates a wide range of well-established tool-use datasets and aligns them into a unified format, similar to standard information retrieval (IR) benchmarks such as BEIR and MTEB, to facilitate tool retrieval evaluation. In tool learning, we observe that previous work primarily focuses on three mainstream types of tools: (i) Web APIs: These tools are encapsulated in the OpenAPI format (standard JSON documentation) and can be directly invoked via HTTP requests. Web APIs are typically used to access, manipulate (e.g., add, delete, edit, or query), or retrieve private data or information from specialized databases, covering a wide range of domains such as movies, music, and sports. (ii) Code Functions: These tools are represented by source code containing function signatures and im- plementation details. Code functions primarily focus on low-level computations or atomic operations, such as tensor calculations, calling Hugging Face models, or utilizing PyTorch libraries. (iii) Customized Apps: These tools are paired with free-form natural language descriptions. They are typically user-oriented or personalized, enabling tasks such as sending emails or other custom applications. These tool types differ in functionality and documentation format, reflecting diverse scenarios for tool-use LLMs. For IR models, retrieving different types of tools may present varying levels of difficulty. Therefore, we categorize the