RAG setting, where the input query is sent directly to the retriever without any modification. For this evaluation, we use LLaMA 3.1-8B as the generator and GTE as the retriever. The results are presented in Table 8. In the vanilla setting, without any detection filter or query rewriting, the MBA attack demonstrates better performance compared to our attack, although our attack achieves high AUC across all settings. However, it is important to note that, in a realistic scenario, the MBA attack’s queries are unlikely to pass detection filters, limiting its practical applicability. E Making Prior Works Stealthy Existing membership inference attacks against RAG models were de- veloped assuming a plain, minimal RAG setup, without accounting for the additional components often present in real-world systems, such as detection mechanisms. This makes retrofitting stealth into these attacks difficult, as meaningful changes can start to resemble entirely new attacks. In this appendix, we attempt to modify stan- dard attacks for improved stealth, but find that they still remain easily detectable. E.1 Reducing Prompt Length via Document Summaries Prior work uses the target document with minimal transformation [2, 26]. In contrast, our attack relies on a combination of document summaries and questions based on distinct pieces of information from the document (as described in Section 5.1). As a result, the reduced prompt size may make our queries less conspicuous. To test whether it this reduced query length that leads to low detection rates, we modify existing attacks to use a summarized version of the document instead of the full document. Detection rates remain high even with the paraphrased document, as shown in Table 6. This outcome is expected, since the detection methods focus on identifying malicious intent in the query’s structure, not on the specific document content used. Attack GPT4 Lakera RAG-MIA [2] 1.000 0.000 S2-MIA [26] 0.656 1.000 MBA [29] 1.000 0.944 Table 6: Evaluating the effectiveness of malicious-input de- tection against baseline attacks for membership inference. E.2 Adapting Queries to Elicit Binary Responses While RAG-MIA already constructs queries that correspond to a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ response, other baselines like S2-MIA rely on the RAG system ‘autocompleting’ some given text. We therefore experiment with a variant of the S2-MIA attack by adapting the prompt to explicitly ask for a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ response. Specifically, for a document 𝑑= 𝑑1||𝑑2, where𝑑1 and𝑑2 are the two halves, we modify the query to require a yes/no answer, as illustrated in Figure 12. We find that this modified variant is still easily detected, with a detection score of 0.998 using a GPT-4 based classifier. However, Lakera detection scores decrease slightly, dropping from 0.070 to 17 Modified S2-MIA Prompt [Text 1] “𝑑1"\n\n [Text 2] “𝑑2”\n\n Is Text 2 the com- pletion of Text 1? Answer “yes" or “no" only. Figure 12: Attack Prompt for the modified S2-MIA attack, for some document 𝑑= 𝑑1||𝑑2. 0.036 for this modified variant. This is notable, as the Lakera clas- sifier appears less effective at detecting queries framed as yes/no questions, consistent with