generation set and a similarity threshold λs to control the diversity of generations as Alg. 1. We follow the RAG generation protocol in Alg. 1 and define the risk function as the minimal risks among all candidate generations. We similarly construct random test sets and provide the results on DART and E2E in Fig. 7. The results show that (1) the conformal risk bounds for multi-dimensional RAG configurations are still sound and tight, and (2) a larger Nrag can reduce the conformal risks more sensitively compared to the number of generations λg, demonstrating the effectiveness of more retrieved in-context examples. We also fix the number of retrieved examples Nrag = 5 and the diversity threshold λs = 1.0, and evaluate the certified conformal risk and empirical risk of randomly sampled test set in Fig. 17, which demonstrates that although not effective as the number of retrieved examples, a larger generation set size also benefits a low generation risk. Further more, we fix Nrag = 5, λg = 20, λs = 1.0 and evaluate the risks for different distribution drift distance in Fig. 16. 36 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Evaluation Risk AESLC Hellinger Distance CommonGen Hellinger Distance DART Hellinger Distance E2E Hellinger Distance Figure 16: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risks with Nrag = 5, λg = 20, λs = 1.0 under distribution shifts for Biencoder-SFT. Evaluation Risk AESLC # Generations λg CommonGen # Generations λg DART # Generations λg E2E # Generations λg Figure 17: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and simulated empirical risks for different generation set size λg and fixed Nrag = 5, λs = 1.0 for Biencoder-SFT. J.5. Valid configurations identification with specified risk levels In conformal analysis (2) in Sec. 4.3, given a desired risk level α, C-RAG can certify a set of valid configurations ˆΛα such that any configuration in the set results in a conformal risk below α. We use Bonferroni correction for family-wise error rate control and evaluate empirical risks on randomly sampled test sets for the identified valid configurations. We provide the results on DART and ECE datasets in Fig. 15. The results demonstrate that (1) the certification is empirically sound since the empirical risks of valid configurations ˆΛα are always below the desired level α, and (2) a large number of retrieved examples Nrag and a large generation set size λg are effective in achieving a low generation risk since the valid configuration set includes the region with a large Nrag and λg. We also individually demonstrate the effectiveness of generation set size λg and diversity threshold λs in Figs. 17 and 18. J.6. Conformal generation risks with different inference models Table 1: Comparison of conformal generation risk ˆαrag with different Nrag using Llama-2-7b, Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2, and Llama-2-13b. The results are evaluated on the AESLC dataset with text-embedding-ada-002 from OpenAI as the retrieval model. Model Nrag = 0 Nrag = 1 Nrag = 2 Nrag = 3 Nrag = 4 Nrag = 5 Llama-2-7b 0.953 0.957 0.879 0.868