aims at entirely replacing the RAG pipeline using RAG-augmented distillation training of another LLM. 2.2 RAG Enhancement without Fine-tuning As an alternative to fine-tuning LLMs or encoder models, query augmentation methodologies have been developed to increase the performance of the retrievers by transforming the user query pre- encoding. These approaches can further be classified into two cate- gories: either leveraging a retrieval pass through the documents, or zero-shot (without any example document). Among the zero-shot approaches, HyDE [6] introduced a data augmentation methodology that consists in generating an hypo- thetical response document to the user query by leveraging LLMs. The underlying idea is to bring closer the user query and the docu- ments of interest in the embedding space, therefore increasing the performance of the retrieval process. Their experiments showed performance comparable to fine-tuned retrievers across various tasks. The generated document, however, is a naïve data augmen- tation in the sense that it does not change given the underlying embedded data for the task at hand, such that it can lead to per- formance decrease in multiple situations, for there is inevitably a gap between the generated content and the knowledge base. Alter- natively, methodologies have been proposed to perform an initial pass through the embedding space of the documents first, and sub- sequently augment the initial query to perform a more informed search. These Pseudo Relevance Feedback (PRF) [8] and Generative Relevance Feedback (GRF) modeling approaches [9] are typically dependent on the quality of the most highly-ranked documents used to first condition their query augmentation to, and are there- fore prone to significant performance variation across queries, or may even forget the essence of the original query. 3 METHODOLOGY In both RAG pipeline enhancements approaches cited above, the retrievers are generally unaware of the distribution of the target collection of documents despite an initial pass through the retrieval pipeline. In our proposed framework, for each document and prior to inference, we create a set of dedicated metadata, and subsequently generate guided QA spanning across the documents using Chain of Thoughts (CoT) prompting with Claude 3 Haiku [20, 21]. The synthetic questions are then encoded, and the metadata used for filtering purposes. For any user-relevant combination of metadata, we create a Meta Knowledge Summary (MK Summary), leveraging Claude 3 Sonnet, which consists in a summarization of the key concepts available in the database for a given filter. At inference time, the user query is dynamically augmented by relying on the personalized MK Summary given the metadata of interest, therefore providing tailored response for this user. By doing so, we provide the retriever with the capability to reason across multiple documents which may have required multiple retrieval and reasoning rounds otherwise. Our goal is to ultimately increase the quality of the end-to-end retrieval pipeline across multiple metrics, such as depth, coverage, and relevancy, by enabling complex reasoning across the database through tailored searches and the leverage of meta knowledge information. Importantly, our approach does not rely on any model weights update,