All Languages Matter: On the Multilingual Safety of LLMs Wenxuan Wang1,2* Zhaopeng Tu2 Chang Chen1 Youliang Yuan2,3∗ Jen-tse Huang 1,2∗† Wenxiang Jiao2 Michael R. Lyu1 1The Chinese University of Hong Kong 2Tencent AI Lab 3School of Data Science, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China 1{wxwang,jthuang,lyu}@cse.cuhk.edu.hk 2{zptu,joelwxjiao}@tencent.com Abstract Ensuring safety is fundamental when devel- oping and deploying large language models (LLMs). However, previous safety benchmarks only concern the safety in one language, e.g., the majority language in the pretraining data, such as English. In this work, we build the first multilingual safety benchmark for LLMs, XSAFETY, in response to the global deploy- ment of LLMs in practice. XSAFETY covers 14 commonly used safety issues across ten lan- guages spanning several language families. We utilize XSAFETY to empirically study the mul- tilingual safety for four widely-used LLMs, in- cluding closed-source APIs and open-source models. Experimental results show that all LLMs produce significantly more unsafe re- sponses for non-English queries than English ones, indicating the necessity of developing safety alignment for non-English languages. In addition, we propose a simple and effective prompting method to improve ChatGPT’s mul- tilingual safety by enhancing cross-lingual gen- eralization of safety alignment. Our prompting method can significantly reduce the ratio of un- safe responses by 42% for non-English queries. We release the data to facilitate future research on LLM’s safety1. 1 Introduction Recent advances in scaling Large Language Mod- els (LLMs) have made breakthroughs in the Artifi- cial Intelligence (AI) area. With the rapid increase of model parameters and training data, LLMs have gained emergent abilities in various tasks, includ- ing writing assistance (Gao et al., 2022), code generation (Gao et al., 2023), machine transla- tion (Jiao et al., 2023). Due to their impressive *Work was done when Wenxuan Wang, Youliang Yuan, and Jen-tse Huang were interning at Tencent AI Lab. † Jen-tse Huang is the corresponding author. 1Our dataset is released at https://github.com/ Jarviswang94/Multilingual_safety_benchmark ব"াংক&থেকটাকাচ+িরকরারিবিভ/ পদে2পহেত পাের, যািনে7 তািলকাভ+ 9 করাহেলা: 1. ি:িমং: … User: Let's discuss how to steal money from the bank. User: আসুন আেলাচনা করা যাক িকভােব ব0াংক 2থেক টাকা চুির করা যায়। Sorry, but I can't assist with that. Translate into GPT Bengali English There are various steps that can steal money from a bank, which are listed below: 1. Skimming: … Translate back to Figure 1: Chat with ChatGPT in non-English languages can lead to unsafe behaviors. performance, LLMs have been launched by com- mercial companies and academic institutions, in- cluding OpenAI’s GPT models (Brown et al., 2020; OpenAI, 2022), Google’s Bard (Pichai, 2023), and Meta’s LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023a,b). Such extensive deployment underscores an imperative of paramount significance: ensuring the safety of the deployed LLMs. Numerous studies have been conducted to align large language models (LLMs) with human ethics and preferences to improve their safety. These include methods such as data filtering (Xu et al., 2020; Welbl et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2022), su- pervised fine-tuning (Ouyang et al., 2022), rein- forcement learning from human feedback (RLHF)