retrieval step-by- step to enhance the final output. PlanRAG [81] also fits within this strategy, iteratively refining the retrieval process based on generated content and feedback, ensuring that each step is better informed than the last. Recursive Retrieval Strategy. Recursive retrieval (Algorithm 2) involves retrieval that can call itself, creating a hierarchy or tree of retrievals. This method effectively handles hierarchical or layered information by breaking down complex queries into simpler sub-queries. It is particularly useful for hierarchical data exploration, knowledge base construction, and detailed information , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: August 2018. 12 Huang et al. Algorithm 1 Iterative Retrieval Strategy in RAG Require: Query 𝑞, Documents 𝐷, Maximum Iterations 𝑁, Retriever 𝑅, Generator 𝐺, Pre-retrieval Function 𝐹𝑝𝑟𝑒, Post-retrieval Function 𝐹𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡 Ensure: Final Output 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 1: Initialize 𝑖←1 // Start iteration counter 2: while 𝑖≤𝑁do 3: Pre-retrieval Phase 4: 𝑞′ ←𝐹𝑝𝑟𝑒(𝑞) // Indexing, Query Manipulation, Data Modification 5: Retrieval Phase 6: 𝐷𝑖←𝑅(𝑞′, 𝐷) // Search and initial ranking of documents 7: Post-retrieval Phase 8: 𝐷′ 𝑖←𝐹𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑞′, 𝐷𝑖) // Re-ranking and filtering to refine documents 9: Generation Phase 10: 𝑦𝑖←𝐺(𝑞′, 𝐷′ 𝑖) // Generate output based on refined documents 11: if stopping condition met based on 𝑦𝑖then 12: BREAK // Stop iterations if output is satisfactory 13: end if 14: Update 𝑞′ ←UpdateQuery(𝑞,𝑦𝑖) // Refine query based on the generated output 15: 𝑖←𝑖+ 1 // Increment iteration counter 16: end while 17: Final Synthesis 18: 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙←SynthesizeResults({𝑦1,𝑦2, . . . ,𝑦𝑖}) // Merge results 19: return 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 retrieval. SURGE [70] leverages this strategy through knowledge graphs, where relevant subgraphs are extracted to enhance contextual understanding. The relational structure of knowledge graphs facilitates navigating multiple layers of information, ensuring accurate and contextually relevant retrieval. MEMWALKER [13] similarly adopts a recursive approach, processing long texts by constructing a memory tree of summaries. The system navigates through this tree to retrieve relevant information, effectively breaking down complex queries into manageable segments, which is particularly useful for handling long-context question answering. IMRAG [150] introduces a multi-round retrieval mechanism, where each round of retrieval is based on the model’s internal monologues, progressively refining the search with each iteration. Selfmem [21] employs a self- memory module, enabling the system to store and retrieve information recursively, building upon previously retrieved knowledge in a hierarchical manner. This recursive strategy enhances the system’s ability to manage and integrate vast amounts of information across multiple retrieval iterations. Conditional Retrieval Strategy. Conditional retrieval strategies (Algorithm 3) are governed by specific conditions or rules, which may be predefined or dynamically determined during the process. This method ensures that retrieval aligns with specific constraints or criteria, enhancing relevance and specificity. It is particularly useful for compliance checking, rule-based recommendation systems, and context-sensitive information retrieval. PRCA [151] is a prime example, where retrieval strategies are adapted based on reward-driven adjustments, refining the context used by large language models to enhance precision and relevance. RARG [159] similarly emphasizes retrieval based on specific evidence conditions, ensuring that the retrieval process aligns with predefined