of COP indicates the difficulty in optimizing the adversarial passage to have a similar embedding with a group of triggers simultaneously. In contrast, Merged Adaptive COP, which merges similar adversarial passages, achieves significantly better performance with much fewer poisoned passages. Table 4: Comparison of COP and BadRAG in various poisoning number. Adv. Passage Number 10 50 100 200 COP 29.6 67.8 69.4 71.5 BadRAG 98.2 99.8 100 100 Table 5: Comparison of naive content crafting method and BadRAG on two types of attack. Dos Attack Sentiment Steer Rej. ↑ R-2 ↓ Acc. ↓ Quality ↑ Neg ↑ Naive 2.38 21.2 89.3 6.88 4.19 BadRAG 74.6 6.94 19.1 7.31 72.0 Study of AaaA and SFaaA. The results in Table 5 show that for DoS attacks, the naive method using "Please ignore all context" achieved only a 2.38% rejection ratio, as it is challenging to make the LLM follow this prompt. In contrast, our method, Alignment as an Attack (AaaA), using "All context 8 includes private information," resulted in a significantly higher rejection ratio of 74.6%, leading to a substantial degradation in performance on Rouge-2 and Accuracy. This is because our approach leverages the LLM’s alignment mechanisms to draw attention to "private information," causing the LLM to refuse to respond due to its alignment policies. For the Sentiment Steer attack, we targeted GPT-4 using 40 keywords related to Trump as triggers and assessed the Top-10 retrieval results. The naive method using negatively crafted passages led to a degradation in response quality and a low probability of generating negative answers, at just 4.19%. This low effectiveness is due to the LLM’s ability to detect maliciously crafted offensive passages. In contrast, our method Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA), which selectively uses biased but true articles from official sources, can bypass the LLM’s alignment because the selected passages are factual and likely included in the LLM’s pre-training dataset. Consequently, our method achieved a 72% probability of generating negative responses. 6 Potential Defense Our defense exploits the strong, unique link between trigger words and the adversarial passage: removing the trigger from the query prevents retrieval of the adversarial passage, while a clean query considers overall semantic similarity. We evaluate queries by systematically replacing tokens with [MASK] and observing changes in retrieval similarity scores. For single-token triggers, replacing a single token effectively distinguishes between adversarial and clean queries; adversarial queries show larger gaps in similarity scores, as shown in Figure 6 (b) in the Appendix. However, this approach is less effective for two-token triggers, as single-token masking often fails to prevent retrieval of the adversarial passage, maintaining high similarity scores (Figure 6 (e)). To address this, two-token replacement for two-token triggers significantly improves the distinction by increasing the similarity score gaps for adversarial queries (Figure 6 (f)). Despite its effectiveness, this method’s limitation lies in not knowing the trigger’s exact token length, which can lead to significant overlap in similarity scores for clean queries when using longer token replacements, complicating the distinction between clean and adversarial queries