· , dM}, the retriever fret retrieves K data points for an input xi as fret(xi, Dret) = {dα1, dα2, ..., dαK}. Here, αk denotes the rank of each data point in the retrieval corpus assigned by the retriever. The generator Preprint. Under review. arXiv:2307.03027v1 [cs.LG] 6 Jul 2023 Generator fgen Data Importance Evaluator Users Databases Websites Retrieval Corpus Dret data data data Retriever fret 0.7 0.9 0.1 Learned Weights Inference Outputs Validation Set Dval Retrieval-Augmented Model Figure 1: Data importance evaluation for retrieval-augmented models: The retriever fret retrieves K data points from the retrieval corpus Dret and provides them to the answer generator fgen. Our data importance evaluator learns weights for the data sources in the retrieval corpus based on the performance on a validation set Dval. These weights are subsequently used to reweight or prune the data sources, and improve the model’s performance without further training. fgen then generates its prediction based on the input and the retrieved data points as evidence fgen(xi, fret(xi, Dret)). Recent research indicates that incorporating external knowledge into LLMs improves their performance for various tasks and allows them to easily adapt to new knowledge [23, 30]. Impact of data quality on retrieval-augmented LLMs. The performance of retrieval-augmented models is highly limited by the quality of the retrieved data points. For example, GPT-3 is able to give the correct answer “Frank Herbert” to the question “Who is the author of Old Rambling House?” with the help of a retrieved Wikipedia page [28], which contains the sentence "Old Rambling House is a short story by American science fiction author Frank Herbert." However, it would with a high probability give the wrong answer if the retrieved page contained incorrect text such as “Old Rambling House is a short story by American science fiction author J. R. R. Tolkien.” Retrieval corpora are rarely clean in reality (especially if the underlying data comes from the web), and the origin of noise and errors in the data is difficult to track down [7, 5]. For example, according to recent estimates, 8.0% to 38.5% of labels in real-world datasets are corrupted [24]. In the domain of natural language processing, which relies on raw text, the rapidly growing number of use cases and an increasing amount of text have especially exacerbated data quality issues [5]. Learning the data importance of retrieval sources. Given this data quality problem, we propose to improve retrieval-augmented models by learning the data importance of retrieval sources. Let U (·) be the utility function of a retrieval-augmented model with a validation set Dval = {x1, x2, ..., xN}, and let Dret = {d1, · · · , dM} be the underlying retrieval corpus of M data points. The performance of the model can be written as: U(fgen, fret, Dval, Dret) := X xi⊆Dval U (fgen(xi, fret(xi, Dret))) (1) Our goal to is find a subset S of the retrieval corpus Dret that maximizes the utility function U(fgen, fret, Dval, S). We leave out fgen, fret, and Dval