of the pruned 7-expert model on the GSM8K test set exceeds that of the 8-expert model. This suggests that for cer- tain practical downstream tasks, a large number of experts might not be a necessity for achieving good performance. Also, the pruned models using sam- ples from MATH as the calibration dataset outper- form those using C4 after tuning, further highlight- ing the effectiveness of adopting domain-specific calibration datasets for task-specific models. 4.3 Dynamic Expert Skipping Results This subsection assesses the effectiveness of our proposed dynamic expert skipping approach. Addi- tionally, we explore the combination of both meth- ods to further improve inference efficiency. Experiment Setup. We perform tests on task- agnostic models for better representativeness. The setup is similar to Sec. 4.1. We first prune the Mix- tral 8x7B and Mixtral 8x7B Instruct model using calibration data sampled from the C4 dataset and get the pruned models with r = 6 and r = 4. Dur- ing the testing of different benchmarks, we dynami- cally skip certain experts. For evaluation, we report the zero-shot accuracies of 8 tasks from EleutherAI LM Harness (Gao et al., 2023). Our proposed dy- Model Method r LM-eval Mixtral 8x7B Progressive 6 64.48 Layer-wise (Ours) 6 64.22 Progressive 4 57.53 Layer-wise (Ours) 4 59.57 Table 6: Comparison between the layer-wise pruning manner and the progressive pruning manner. The pro- gressive scheme will lead to more performance degra- dation with a high expert pruning rate. namic expert skipping method does not influence the memory usage for model inference, so we just report the inference speed in this subsection. Baselines to Compare. We suggest that our pro- posed dynamic expert skipping can be seamlessly integrated with the expert pruning approach. For setting up baselines, we evaluate zero-shot accura- cies of the original 8-expert model without dynamic expert skipping, as well as the accuracies of models pruned to r = 6 and r = 4 without dynamic expert skipping. Subsequently, we incorporate dynamic expert skipping into the inference process of these models, evaluate accuracies over benchmarks, and measure token generation speedup. Evaluation Results. The evaluation results are illustrated in Tab. 5. We show the average accura- cies of the 8 zero-shot tasks at the “LM-eval” col- umn, together with the inference speedup ratio com- pared to the original 8-expert models. As can be seen, based on expert pruning, the dynamic expert skipping method can further enhance the inference speed with just negligible performance drops. We can achieve nearly 90% performance of the Mixtral 8x7B Instruct model with half parameters and a 1.33× token generation speedup. Another notable observation is that the Mixtral 8x7B Instruct model using both expert pruning and dynamic skipping with r = 6 achieves the same inference speedup as the model using only expert pruning with r = 4 while getting a much higher accuracy over the LM- eval benchmark. This phenomenon also proves the efficiency of our dynamic expert skipping approach. For a more comprehensive evaluation, we perform dynamic skipping on task-specific models