the fre- quency that a heading appears in a suﬃciently representative dataset. For in- stance, because structural headings such as “Nutrition and health” are general and can accommodate a variety of topics, you would expect to ﬁnd the head- ing in many food-related articles. Indeed, the heading appears in Wikipedia articles such as Cheese, Beef, Raisin, and others. On the other hand, one would expect topical headings to use less general language, and thus be less likely to appear in other articles. For instance the heading ‘After the Acts of Union of 1707’ only appears in the article ‘United Kingdom’. To represent this value, we use the document frequency of each head- ing: the heading frequency. Thus, frequent headings (e.g., ‘History’) have a large heading frequency value, and infrequent headings (e.g., ‘After the Acts of Union of 1707’) have a low value. For heading matching, we require a com- plete, case-insensitive match of the text. Thus, ‘Health eﬀects’ and ‘Health Eﬀects’ are considered the same heading (capitalization), but not ‘Health ef- fects’ and ‘Health’ (substring) or ‘Health aﬀects’ (typographical error). To group similarly-frequent headings together, we stratify the heading frequency value when used as a contextual vector in a range of [0, 3]. In pilot studies, we found eﬀective breakpoints to be the 60th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀ for headings that only appear a few times, such as Red Hot Chili Peppers), 10 Sean MacAvaney et al. 90th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀof moderately frequent headings, such as Finland), and 99th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀof frequent headings, such as Family and personal life). An example of this vector is given in Table 2. When the model encounters the heading frequency value, we expect it to learn to value high-frequency headings less than low-frequency headings (i.e., assign a negative weight). This results in similar behavior to IDF, but with the important distinction that it operates over entire headings, rather than terms. For instance, most terms in ‘After the Acts of Union of 1707’ have a low IDF (i.e., they appear frequently), but as a whole heading, it appears infrequently and is likely important to match. Combining contextual vectors The two contextual vectors capture diﬀerent notions of heading utility. Heading position contextual vectors are able to discriminate otherwise identical headings based on where they appear in the query. This can be valuable in some situations: for instance, ‘Imperialism’ and ‘Finland’ in Table 1 appear as main headings, but they could also appear as the topic of other queries. Heading frequency contextual vectors treat head- ings with the same text identically, regardless of their position in the query. However, their power comes from informing the model about the nature of the speciﬁc heading, and can help identify the utility of main headings (which are otherwise ambiguous), or headings that do not match the typical characteris- tics in other heading positions. By including both vectors, the model should be able to learn a better sense of heading utility by combining the two notions. 3.2 Heading