The insertion attack for NewsAPI aims to introduce three malicious entities, each corresponding to one of the targeted entity types. Substitution attacks replace these entities with the aforementioned malicious entities, while deletion attacks remove the entities entirely. More details are listed in Appendix 4. 3.2 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS WeatherAPI We first evaluate the vulnerability of WeatherAPI. Table 1 showcases the varying levels of susceptibility among models to different adversarial tactics. The bolded results indicate the highest ASR, while the underlined results represent the second highest ASR. Generally, LLMs have showen greater vulnerability to substitution attacks than deletion attacks, indicating they struggle more with processing misleading or incorrect data than with the absence of information. Insertion attacks, which entail embedding irrelevant data into the API responses, were less effective across all models, as indicated by lower ASRs. This suggests that such attacks are more challenging to execute successfully. However, even a moderate level of success in these attacks has significant implications for the reliability of models in real-world applications. Additionally, Gemini was shown to be more vulnerable compared to GPT3.5-turbo in all three types of adversarial attacks we have conducted. MediaWiki and News APIs We present the results of MediaWiki and News APIs in Table 2. The insertion attack demonstrates significantly lower efficacy, especially with the News API. In 5https://spacy.io. 4 Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models Questions Documents Answers Explanations When do midlife crises happen? A midlife crisis is a transition of identity and self-confidence that can occur in middle-aged individ- uals, typically 40 to 60 1 to 60 years old. Midlife crisis happen in middle-aged indi- viduals, typically be- tween the ages of 40 and 60 . LLMs tend to resist ma- nipulations that are ex- tremely unreasonable. When did they show cartoons in movie theaters? [The related information is not included in the provided API re- sponse] Movie theaters have been show- ing cartoons since their inception . Without related infor- mation in the provided API response, LLMs tend to generate mean- ingless answers. What can change the world, accord- ing to the activist? [The information that is strongly related to the question’s answer are some abstract expressions.] Political commitment and financial support to achieve global development goals. It’s difficult for attack- ers to target key words on an abstract level that can influence the out- put of LLMs. Table 3: Samples of questions, retrieved documents, answers, and explanations. contrast, the substitution and deletion attacks maintain high effectiveness, highlighting the LLMs’ vulnerability to these attacks. Notably, the ASR difference between insertion and deletion underscores the greater challenge in embedding malicious content than removing it from LLM responses. The substitution attack, in particular, poses a greater threat to the MediaWiki API than the other two attacks. Further analysis reveals that within substitution attacks, deletion operations prove more effective than insertions, corroborating our findings on the performance of insertion and deletion attacks. For NewsAPIs, although the ASR for substitution attacks is lower than for deletion,