long and short chain reasoning abilities. Then, it adopted a long-short adaptive grouping reward strategy to evaluate the prompt complexity and give corresponding incentives, and implements a logic-based reasoning mode switching loss function to optimize the initial token selection of the model, thereby guiding the reasoning type decision. Zhang et al. [221] used the parameter 𝛼to characterize the scaled thinking phase. After the 𝛼moment ends, 𝛼1 deterministically terminates slow thinking through a thinking termination marker, thereby promoting rapid reasoning and efficient answer generation. This study models the insertion of reasoning transition markers as a Bernoulli random process to dynamically schedule slow-thinking transitions. 4.5 RLVR for Agent The interplay between long-horizon decision-making and stochastic environmental feedback introduces unique challenges in training large language models as interactive agents. Unlike typical single-turn interaction tasks common in standard LLM applications, interactive agents necessitate extended, multi-turn interactions with their environment. Despite the advancements of reinforcement learning in static tasks, multi-turn agent training in reinforcement learning remains understudied, particularly due to issues such as delayed rewards [39, 96, 165]. AGILE [132] integrated large language models with memory systems, tool utilization, and expert interactions. Here, the LLM serves as the policy model and is fine-tuned using annotated action data through the Proximal Policy Optimization algorithm. LARM [96] employed lightweight LLMs (fewer than 5 billion parameters) to directly output executable actions rather than textual descriptions. Utilizing the PPO algorithm for training and introducing a referee mechanism based on large-scale Manuscript submitted to ACM RL Meets LLMs: A Survey of Advancements and Applications Across the LLM Lifecycle 19 LLMs for providing intermediate rewards, LARM successfully addresses the challenge of long-term reward vanishing, demonstrated by obtaining enchanted diamond equipment in Minecraft. Search-R1 [76] optimized the reasoning trajectory of LLMs through multi-round search interactions and adopts retrieval token masking technology to ensure the stability of reinforcement learning training. ToRL [94] extended reinforcement learning directly from foundational models (i.e., without additional post-training), enabling large language models to autonomously leverage computational tools. ReTool [37] enhanced long-chain reasoning by generating synthetic cold-start data to build code-enhanced reasoning trajectories for fine-tuning, and then applying iterative reinforcement learning with task success rewards to autonomously optimize tool-use strategies without manual priors. RAGEN [180] investigated four environments and identified the “Echo Trap” of reward fluctuations and gradient spikes, highlighting that robust reasoning in multi-turn RL requires diversified initial states, moderate interaction granularity, and higher sampling frequency, while lacking fine-grained reasoning-aware rewards leads agents to superficial or hallucinatory strategies. OpenThinkImg [155] optimized task success rates directly through interactive tool feedback, enabling large vision-language models (LVLMs) to autonomously identify optimal tool-use strategies. Feng et al. [39] addressed the sparse and delayed reward issues emerging from extended multi-step interactions by computing macro-level relative advantages at the episodic level based on full trajectory groups, and step-level groupings through an anchored state grouping mechanism. Zhang et al. [228] adopted a heuristic approach to group games based on features such as rules and difficulty, subsequently training specialized models for each group. It then merges