two candidate answers are often very subtle. We found context relevance to be the hardest quality dimension to evaluate. In particular, we observed that ChatGPT often struggles with the task of selecting the sen- tences from the context that are crucial, especially for longer contexts. 6 Conclusions We have highlighted the need for automated reference-free evaluation of RAG systems. In par- ticular, we have argued the need for an evaluation framework that can assess faithfulness (i.e. is the answer grounded in the retrieved context), answer relevance (i.e. does the answer address the ques- tion) and context relevance (i.e. is the retrieved context sufficiently focused). To support the devel- opment of such a framework, we have introduced WikiEval, a dataset which human judgements of these three different aspects. Finally, we have also described Ragas, our implementation of the three considered quality aspects. This framework is easy to use and can provide deverlopers of RAG sys- tems with valuable insights, even in the absence of any ground truth. Our evaluation on WikiEval has shown that the predictions from Ragas are closely aligned with human predictions, especially for faithfulness and answer relevance. References Amos Azaria and Tom M. Mitchell. 2023. The inter- nal state of an LLM knows when its lying. CoRR, abs/2304.13734. Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Millican, George van den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, Diego de Las Casas, Aurelia Guy, Jacob Menick, Roman Ring, Tom Hennigan, Saffron Huang, Loren Maggiore, Chris Jones, Albin Cassirer, Andy Brock, Michela Paganini, Geoffrey Irving, Oriol Vinyals, Simon Osindero, Karen Si- monyan, Jack W. Rae, Erich Elsen, and Laurent Sifre. 2022. Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2022, 17-23 July 2022, Bal- timore, Maryland, USA, volume 162 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 2206–2240. PMLR. Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chandrasekaran, Ronen El- dan, Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, Peter Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lund- berg, et al. 2023. Sparks of artificial general intelli- gence: Early experiments with gpt-4. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.12712. Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language under- standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech- nologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational Linguistics. Jinlan Fu, See-Kiong Ng, Zhengbao Jiang, and Pengfei Liu. 2023. Gptscore: Evaluate as you desire. CoRR, abs/2302.04166. Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu- pat, and Mingwei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented language model pre-training. In International confer- ence on machine learning, pages 3929–3938. PMLR. Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023. Survey of halluci- nation in natural language generation. ACM Comput- ing Surveys, 55(12):1–38. Saurav Kadavath, Tom Conerly, Amanda Askell, Tom Henighan, Dawn Drain, Ethan Perez, Nicholas Schiefer, Zac Hatfield-Dodds,