tables. TABLE I USER’S REQUIREMENT PARAMETER RETRIEVAL AGENT TASK Prompt Engineering for the User’s Information Parameter Filling Accumulated information: r Task description: I want you to fill this template {{t}} What is the missing information? Agent retrieval prompt: You are an assistant helping to search which information is missing. The available information is: <Accumulated information > Your output must be like this: the missing information to satisfy the request is INFORMATION MISSING. If you have the information write the token [ALL INFO]. Strictly respond with only the information that is missing. <Task description > C. Modification Module with Procurement Knowledge Base Procurement item lists vary among projects. Some projects only provide procurement project names or purposes without specifying detailed item lists or parameters for each item. In such cases, historical procurement project information is utilized to identify closely related procurement items. We apply GraphRAG on the tender document corpus, and analyze the resulting knowledge graph of items from previous projects using the graph query language Neo4j. When the purchaser fails to provide a procurement list, we search the GraphRAG graph using Cypher language. For instance, we use Cypher query to obtain entities related to influenza A virus, the result graph is shown in Fig 1. Cypher Query: MATCH (e:Entity)-[r]-(related) where e.name contains ”influenza A virus” RETURN e,r,related The utilization of an external product knowledge base enhances the efficiency of processing tender documents by categorizing items to align closely with procurement needs. This ensures relevance to user requirements and helps eliminate irrelevant goods. Once a product classification knowledge base is established, we distinguish procurement items from unrelated ones in historical documents based on the item embedding distance, with θ representing the threshold, as illustrated in Equation 7. IV. EXPERIMENT A. Dataset We evaluated our framework using a dataset of 1406 tender documents containing procurement details, such as project name, project number, purchase item list, and more, from previous tender projects in the medical field. These documents were provided by a procurement group. Based on the tender documents, we built a knowledge graph using GraphRAG with the DeepSeek LLM. The details of this graph are depicted in Figure II. Fig. 1. Example of GraphRAG Query Result TABLE II NODE LABEL AND COUNT IN THE GRAPH Type Count Examples Entity 4536 Microbial detection reagents, Test kit, ... Relationship 3373 is a kind of, is the procurement item for, ... B. Evaluation The tender documents are stored in an editable Word format, consisting primarily of paragraphs and tables. We evaluate the semantic accuracy of paragraph meanings and the content within tables based on the embedding similarity of the generated documents and the project document provided by the procurement team as gold standard. To access each generated paragraph pi, we iterate to calculate the similarity between pi and each paragraph from the gold standard g s p, aggregating the minimum distance scores as the similarity score of pi. scorepi = max (1 −dist(pi, g s pj)) , j = 0, 1, ... (9) para score