not have previously seen or been trained on. In specific domains, this means obtaining high-quality and precise answers to questions for which an LLM might not have an inherent response. III. PERSIANRAG ARCHITECTURE Despite major advancements in the capabilities of language models, RAG remains a highly relevant and efficient option for generating accurate and enriched responses by incorporating information from external sources. Despite the proven effectiveness of RAG in question-answering systems, multilingual RAG and specifically RAG in Persian, a language with unique characteristics and resource limitations has received less emphasis in research, despite its importance and widespread application. Nevertheless, recent studies have begun to address this gap. Therefore, the current study presents the first successful implementation of Persian RAG system called PersianRAG. The architecture of the PersianRAG system is depicted in Fig. 1. Fig 1. RAG pipeline architecture The components of this architecture are described as follows. A. Knowledge Base The knowledge base serves as a repository of structured information, consisting of processed data that has been organized into meaningful content. This content may include a collection of various texts, scientific articles, wikis, organizational documents, and other curated information sources. The knowledge base is continuously updated and serves as the primary input for information retrieval in the RAG system. B. Text Extractor The text extractor is responsible for processing and extracting raw textual content from the knowledge base. These contents may include structured or unstructured documents that need to be transformed into suitable formats for preprocessing. C. Preprocessor After extracting information from the knowledge base, this component cleans and optimizes the texts. Preprocessing includes activities such as removing noise, additional markings, and certain specific characters in various languages. For Persian, for example, this might involve removing half- spaces. This stage is crucial, as the quality of input data has a direct impact on final results. D. Embedder The embedder plays a key role in converting texts into vector representations. This process involves using deep learning models to compress textual information into numerical vectors. These vectors, although more compact and with fewer dimensions, preserve the semantic information of the texts and convert them into an efficient vector representation for further processing. E. Vector Database Once the texts have been converted to vectors, they are stored in a vector database. This database is optimized to facilitate fast and efficient retrieval of similar vectors. Using a vector database allows the system to perform rapid searches based on textual vectors. One of the leading vector databases, which was also used in this research, is Elasticsearch. F. User Query This section relates to the user's input. The user presents a query or request to the system, which could be a simple or complex text that requires processing by the language model. G. Embedder (For user query) As in the previous stage, the user's query is also transformed into a numerical vector by an embedder. This vector represents the semantic meaning of the user’s query and is used to compare it with the stored vectors in