data-driven insights that can be used to refine the theory of frame semantics. 4 Experimental Settings In this section, we describe the experiments we conduct to test the hypothesis that frame based indexing and search is a more effective mechanism than keyword based indexing. 4.1 Task Our choice of the specific task is motivated by the observation that LLMs can perform reasonably well when provided with relevant facts alongside some distractors. However, as described in the pre- vious section, the retrieval of these relevant facts poses a significant challenge. Therefore, we focus on the task of retrieving relevant factoids for an- swering questions in Entailment Bank. Specifically, we focus on the information extraction subtask re- quired in Task 3 described in Section 3. Notice that the effective retrieval of facts would simplify Task 3 to Task 2, the task of building entailment trees given the relevant facts and some distractors. Given how effective T5-11B, which, by current standards consists of relatively few parameters, is on Task 2, simplifying Task 3 to Task 2 provides a template for solving tasks based exclusively on retrieved facts, which would in turn help with the mitigation of factual hallucinations in LLMs. We slightly mod- ify Task 3 by constructing the corpus of facts that we extract from using all the facts required by any question across the relevant data split, instead of the complete text book corpus which is harder to process. Regardless, we evaluate frame semantic retrieval and the baselines on exactly the same set of questions and facts to ensure a fair comparison. 4.2 Empirical Evaluation Metrics Given the nature of our task, we select Retrieval@k as our evaluation metric. The average length of entailment trees in the Entailment Bank dataset 7.6 with very few having more than 10. Given that Task 2 (described previously in Section 3) includes between 15 and 25 distractors, we test our methods using Retrieval@k for k ∈35, 40, 45. Success in this setting will demonstrate that our retrieval mechanism can effectively simplify Task 3, which requires retrieval from the entire corpus, into Task 2, which involves building entailment trees based on relevant facts and a few distractors. Recall that models perform significantly better on Task 2 than on Task 3. 4.3 Baselines We use two different baselines to compare the effec- tiveness of frame semantic indexing and retrieval against. The first, is a simple keyword match base- line and is chosen due to our emphasis on inter- pretability and ease of correction. Being able to understand why a system retrieves certain facts enables refinement of the system by reassigning facts to different clusters or index buckets. This level of transparency is not possible with more opaque methods, such as dense vector-based re- trieval. Since frame semantic retrieval implic- itly provides interpretable we choose a baseline that is similarly transparent. We first generate search terms by feeding the relevant question to RAKE (Rose et al., 2010), a tool for extracting search terms, which is known to be