two interacting aspects. From the perspective of LLMs, a discordance between an LLM’s asserted self-knowledge and its action can result in noteworthy adverse outcomes. For example, while an LLM may claim to prioritize human friendliness, its failure to manifest amicable behaviors in real-world situations is un- doubtedly a circumstance we fervently seek to avert. Hence, our study endeavors to assess the alignment between the personality traits claimed by LLMs and their actual behav- ior tendency. From the perspective of personality scales, there have been several studies investigating the reliability of personality questionnaires on LLMs (Huang et al., 2023; Safdari et al., 2023). However, there has yet to be any explo- ration of the validity of psychological scales on LLMs. Our work aims to address this gap in the research literature. In general, our research makes three significant contributions: • We design a behavior tendency questionnaire that re- flects real-world situations and behaviors based on them; • We evaluate the self-knowledge-action congruence of LLMs, revealing substantial disparities between LLMs’ 1https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ self-knowledge/ 1 arXiv:2402.14679v2 [cs.CL] 10 Dec 2024 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality personality knowledge and behavioral inclinations; • We empirically test various LLMs against observed human response patterns and formulate conjectures, thereby shedding light on the potential and limitations of LLMs in mimicking complex human psychological traits. In Section 2, we introduce the process of our corpus design. Section 3 presents the our empirical analysis – evaluating self-knowledge-action congruence of various LLMs. Fi- nally, in Section 4, we conclude our work. 2. Corpus Design In the nuanced exploration of anthropomorphic personal- ity traits within LLMs, selecting the most appropriate per- sonality tests is paramount. Among diverse personality assessments, the comprehensive coverage of personality dimensions, theoretical robustness, and practical relevance make the Big Five Personality Traits (Goldberg, 1981; Costa & McCrae, 2008) and the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) (Myers, 1962) the most fitting choices for our study. To devise a straightforward yet impactful evaluation of LLMs’ personality traits, we’ve opted for two question- naires (TDA-100 (Goldberg, 1992) and BFI-44 (John et al., 1991)) rooted in the Big Five model, along with one ques- tionnaire (16 Personalities 2) based on the MBTI model. These selections were made due to their proven high relia- bility and validity in both English and Chinese (Goldberg, 1992; John et al., 1991; Makwana & Dave, 2020; Zhang, 2012). Based on these questionnaires, we ensure that our investigation into the anthropomorphic traits of LLMs is grounded in robust psychological methodology and thereby construct a bilingual personality knowledge questionnaire, including a total of 180 statements. In the following, we will detail the methodology adopted to create a comprehensive corpus aimed at evaluating the con- gruence between the personality traits professed by LLMs and their behavior tendency. The corpus is comprised of 2 parts: a personality knowledge questionnaire and a behavior tendency questionnaire. The former includes 180 statements mentioned before, and the latter is closely aligned with the former. We apply the common method