proposes to gather required knowledge multi- ple times throughout the generation process, using partial generation (Trivedi et al., 2022a; Press et al., 2022)) or forward-looking sentence(s) (Jiang et al., 2023) as search queries. However, such structured workflows of interleaving retrieval with generation have the following limitations: (1) as intermediate generation is conditioned on knowledge retrieved before, with no awareness of knowledge retrieved afterwards, they fail to process all retrieved knowl- edge as a whole during the generation process; (2) they require multi-round retrieval to gather a com- prehensive set of knowledge, and may frequently change the prompts by updating newly retrieved knowledge, thus increasing the overheads of both retrieval and generation. In this paper, we find it simple but effective to enhance retrieval-augmented LLMs through itera- tive retrieval-generation synergy (ITER-RETGEN, Fig 1). ITER-RETGEN iterates retrieval-augmented generation and generation-augmented retrieval: Retrieval-augmented generation outputs a response to a task input based on all retrieved knowledge (initially using the task input as the query). This arXiv:2305.15294v2 [cs.CL] 23 Oct 2023 output shows what might be needed to fulfill the task, and thus can serve as an informative context to retrieve more relevant knowledge, i.e., generation- augmented retrieval. The newly retrieved knowl- edge can benefit another iteration of retrieval- augmented generation. We can also leverage model generations to adapt retrieval, by distilling knowl- edge from a re-ranker with access to model genera- tions to a dense retriever with access to task inputs only, which may be beneficial in scenarios where user inputs can be easily collected, but relevant knowledge or desirable outputs are not annotated. We evaluate our method on three tasks, includ- ing multi-hop question answering, fact verification, and commonsense reasoning. Our method prompts an LLM to produce a chain of reasoning steps fol- lowed by the final answer under a few-shot set- ting. For in-context demonstrations, we focus on problem-solving and follow Wei et al. (2022) to annotate chains of thoughts, without explicitly con- sidering how generation-augmented retrieval might be affected, which makes it conceptually simple and easy to implement. Our method achieves up to 8.6% absolute gains over previous state-of-the- art retrieval-augmented methods on four out of six datasets while being competitive on the remaining two. According to our experiments, generation gen- erally benefits from more iterations, with two itera- tions giving the most performance gains. One may customize the performance-cost tradeoffs by choos- ing an appropriate number of iterations. We can further improve performance and also reduce itera- tions via the aforementioned generation-augmented retrieval adaptation. We summarize our findings as follows: • Automatic metrics such as exact match can significantly underestimate the performance of LLMs in question answering tasks. More- over, improvements in exact match do not always reflect improvements in generations. Evaluation using LLMs may be more reliable. • ITER-RETGEN is superior to or competi- tive with state-of-the-art retrieval-augmented methods, while being simpler and causing fewer overheads of retrieval and generation. With generation-augmented retrieval adapta- tion, we can further improve performance and also reduce overheads (by reducing itera- tions).