to enhance their coding. How- ever, our experiments do not imply the case. We adopt the default setting of EVOR, but only change the maximum context length of LLMs to 2k, 4k, 8k, 12k, and 16k tokens. Figure 6 indi- cates that ChatGPT achieves the best performance when only using external knowledge of 4k tokens. This aligns with the findings in Xu et al. (2023b). With extended context lengths, i.e., more retrieved content is included in the prompt, the performance does not further increase. The potential reasons to explain this situation include: (1). Only a few documents are required to answer a specific question. As shown in Ta- ble 1, the length of gold documentation, i.e., mini- mum required syntax descriptions, never surpasses 4k, which does not even surpass 1k in Scipy-M , Tensorflow-M and Ring. This implies that the retriever has a good chance to include the gold doc- umentation within 4k context length; (2). LLMs have low attention in the middle of long contexts (Liu et al., 2023c). With long contexts, LLMs may fail to identify the relevant content in the middle that can help solve the problem. We leave it to future research to design a more delicate retrieval system that can appropriately reg- ulate the content utilized for LLM generation. J Personally Identifying Infomation We collect data from the domain of code generation. We authors carefully reviewed all the collected data, and confirm that the data that was collected/used does not contain any information that names or uniquely identifies individual people or offensive content. K Intended use EVOR is an advanced pipeline for RACG, and it is expected to be applied in customized code gen- eration. EVOR-BENCH consists of four realistic benchmarks for RACG, and is expected to be used as an evaluation benchmark to evaluate RACG sys- tems. L License Our code and data will be released under Apache- 2.0 license. M Data Documentation EVOR-BENCH is collected from LeetCode and adapted from DS-1000 (Lai et al., 2023), which was originally collected from StackOverflow. The data in EVOR-BENCH is all in English. N Machines We run all experiments on Nvidia A100 GPUs. It takes around 1 hour to finish one dataset in EVOR- BENCH. To complete all the experiments in the paper, it tasks around 24 hours. O Packages For all the packages we use in the code, we em- ploy the pip or conda implementation in the latest version. P Instructions for Human Annotators • Write the code in the corresponding program- ming languages to the problem • Find the documentation of the syntax used in the code. Q Data Consent We adapt data from DS1000 (Lai et al., 2023), which is released under CC-BY-SA-4.0 license. Some of the data is collected from LeetCode, which is a public platform for practicing coding skills. By the copyright law 107: Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 106 and 106A, the fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by re- production in copies or phonorecords or by