compare it with the SOTA models trained from scratch with 3K hours of speech. ASR Post Processing. ASR is evaluated based on word error rate (WER) that aligns the model’s output with reference transcription and penalizes the output based on insertion, deletion, and sub- stitution errors. The measure is unable to disam- biguate code-switching and minor formatting dif- ferences introduced by multilingual scripts or non- standardized orthography. Hence, post-processing is a crucial component. We normalized ‘alif’, ‘ya’ and ta-marbuta’, and adapted a minimalist Global Mapping File (GLM) (Chowdhury et al., 2021) to transliterate common words and handle rendering mismatch. Thus keeping room for further improve- ment with more enhanced post-processing. 3.3 Random Baseline We also calculated a random baseline for the NLP tasks (further details in Appendix, Section C.1). The aim is to determine if the LLMs predictions are not merely the result of chance. It also serves as a lower limit to be expected for each task. 3.4 SOTA Models Our study benchmarks large language models (LLMs) drawing comparisons against a wide vari- ety of methods employed in various studies. These encompass state-of-the-art results utilizing diverse architectures, including LSTM, CRF, GRU, SVM, and various Arabic and multilingual transformer models such as AraBERT, XLM-r, and mT5 etc. 3.5 Evaluation Metrics To measure the performance of each task, we fol- lowed current state-of-art references and used the metric reported in the respective work. This in- cludes: Accuracy (Acc), F1 (macro, micro, and weighted), word error rate (WER), Jaccard Sim- ilarity (JS), Pearson Correlation (PC), and mean opinion score (MOS) for naturalness, intelligibility and diacritization. We report average MOS (10- point Likert scale) from 3 native-annotators. 4 Results and Discussion In Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4, we report the results of dif- ferent NLP and Speech related tasks. In the below sections, we summarize the results and challenges specific to the task groups. 4.1 NLP Tasks In Table 1, we report the random baseline, GPT-3.5, GPT-4 (zero-shot and few-shot), and BLOOMZ and compare them to SOTA.10 In almost all tasks, models outperform random baseline, indicating that the predictions of the models are not by chance. In the case of syntactic tasks such as segmenta- tion, lemmatization, diacritization, POS, and NER, BLOOMZ consistently failed to generate the de- sired output. This suggests a potential lack of un- derstanding of the tasks at hand. Notably, in the diacritization task, the model failed to produce any diacritized content as instructed, instead returning a portion of the input. While the issue may be specific to the Arabic language, it merits investi- gation to determine if similar challenges exist in languages employing accented letters. Word Segmentation, Syntax and Information Extraction. As Table 1 shows, for almost all tasks in this group, the performance is significantly below SOTA performance. For example, the differ- ence between SOTA and GPT-4 (zero-shot) ranges from 6.3% (segmentation) to 57.6% (lemmatiza- tion). Machine Translation. Table 2 reports MT re- sults by averaging them dialect-wise for different datasets. Appendix C.8 reports detailed results.