n- grams. In Su, J., Duh, K., and Carreras, X. (eds.), Pro- ceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 1504–1515,Austin, Texas, November 2016. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D16-1157. Xu, Y., Hu, L., Zhao, J., Qiu, Z., Ye, Y., and Gu, H. A survey on multilingual large language models: Corpora, alignment, and bias. ArXiv, abs/2404.00929, 2024. A. Appendix Languages of various character systems present vastly dif- ferent ways of what the characters represent, how syllables are constructed, and how they are tokenized, etc. We pro- vide an overview of such differences that fundamentally change the way each language is to be processed by lan- guage models, focusing on English, Chinese, Korean, and Japanese. A.1. Preliminaries English employs a phonetic character system based on al- phabets, where characters (letters) correspond to sounds that form the basis of words, and multiple characters form a syllable. English words are typically delimited by spaces or punctuation marks, facilitating tokenization at the word level. For example, ”How are you?” would simply be tok- enized into ”, “how”, “are”, “you”, “?”. In certain applica- tions, such as parsing, tokens may be further broken down with morphological analysis, e.g., “talked” into “talk” and “ed”, but requires additional processes, such as lemmati- zation or part-of-speech tagging. Splitting English tokens into characters is much more straightforward, as each to- ken corresponds directly to a sequence of characters, such as “dog” being split into “d,”,“o,”,“g.” Chinese utilizes a logographic character system, where characters represent morphemes, words, or meaningful units rather than individual sounds. Each Chinese character carries an inherent meaning and may be composed of vari- ous components known as radicals. As such, Chinese char- acters do not rely on phonetic representation and are not delimited by spaces within words. Chinese tokenization separates text into individual characters or words, depend- ing on the granularity required. For instance, “老师好，我 叫小明。(Hello teacher, my name is Xiaoming.)” would be tokenized into “老师(teacher)”, “好(hello)”, “，”, “我(I)”, “叫(am called)”, “小明(Xiaoming)”, “。”. Note that we consider radicals to be out of scope in this paper. Korean employs a unique featural character system known as Hangul. Korean characters represent both phonetic and featural information, where each character is constructed from combinations of consonants and vowels. For exam- ple, consonants ㄱ(g),ㅁ(m) and a vowel ㅣ(i) form a sin- gle character ᄀ ᅵ ᆷ(gim). While structurally combining multi- ple components to form a single character may seem sim- ilar to radicals in Chinese characters, note that each Ko- rean letter represents a phoneme, while radicals are mapped to meanings. As such, any elementary Korean reader can recognize which letters are contained in a character by its sound or its visual composition. Featural structure of Ko- rean poses further challenges for language models as they are encountered not only with character composition of words, but also with how each character is composed. Ko- rean words are typically delimited by spaces or punctua- tion marks, similarly to English. However, tokenization of Korean can be more