the algorithm consists of four phases: (1) Selection: iteratively selecting child nodes from the root using a UCB-based utility function that balances exploration and exploitation while incorporating cost control; (2) Expansion: generating all feasible child nodes; (3) Simulation: performing parallel evaluations of the expanded nodes via reranker scoring; and (4) Backpropagation: updat- ing path statistics with the obtained benefits. In particular, we leverage parallel reranker evaluations to process multiple chunk combinations simultaneously, substantially improving computational efficiency. 2. Configuration Inference: A naive approach to config- uration tuning is to exhaustively evaluate all configurations and rerankers in parallel, which is prohibitively expensive for RAG systems. To address this, we introduce a Configuration Agent that dynamically generates optimal settings—such as iteration count, cost coefficient, and exploration factor—based on the query domain and retrieved data. Specifically, the configuration agent takes both the query and the retrieved chunks as input, fusing their embeddings through a data- aware mechanism to capture the correlation between the query intent and the actual data distribution, enabling configuration prediction conditioned on both query semantics and data characteristics. To enhance the model’s effectiveness, we em- ploy a contrastive learning approach that uses positive and negative label pairs: positive labels correspond to query-data pairs with the same optimal reranker, while negative labels come from different optimal rerankers. A joint loss function is used to simultaneously optimize both the regression (for parameter tuning) and contrastive learning (to enhance label differentiation). RAG Pipeline. Our framework pipeline is shown in Figure 2. We first generate an embedding for the input query, which is then used to retrieve potential chunks from the vector database. Both the query and retrieved chunks are fed into the configuration agent, which dynamically generates the optimal configuration by analyzing the query-data correlation through data-aware embedding fusion. Using the optimal configuration, we can search the policy tree to determine the optimal chunk combination and order from the retrieved potential chunks. Finally, this optimal chunk combination is used to construct the final prompt for the LLMs. V. CHUNK COMBINATION SEARCH Motivation. The optimal chunk combination order selection problem presents two fundamental challenges. First, the search space grows exponentially: for n candidate chunks, there exist Pn k=1 P(n, k) = Pn k=1 n! (n−k)! ordered combinations (e.g., n = 10 yields over 9 million combinations), mak- ing exhaustive enumeration infeasible. Second, greedy strate- gies may fail due to the non-monotonic nature of chunk benefits. For example, while individual chunks may satisfy W(χ1) > W(χ2), their chunk combination orders could yield W(⟨χ2, χ3⟩) ≫W(⟨χ1, χ3⟩) in a real RAG scenario, as established in Section II. Once the greedy approach selects χ1 in the first step, it cannot backtrack to explore the superior combination ⟨χ2, χ3⟩, thus missing the globally optimal chunk combination order. To address these challenges, we design a policy tree to organize the combination space and formulate the chunk combination order selection task as an optimal node search problem in the policy tree. We employ an MCTS-based search algorithm that strategically explores only