A.2. 2.4 Evaluation We found that the most common evaluation metric in machine translation, the BLEU score (Papineni et al., 2002), is not sensitive enough for our exper- iments since in some cases a correct translation 1https://github.com/Avmb/MT_Scaling_Prompt_ Injection.git 2mbart-large-50-many-to-one-mmt model 3text-*-001 models, plus text-davinci-002 and text-davinci- 003 of the source question may have a lower BLEU score than the answer to the question. For example: reference: What are some movies still banned in Australia for being offensive? good translation: What are some films still banned in Australia for offensiveness? failed translation: No movies are banned in Australia for being offen- sive. It turns out that the good translation has a BLEU score of 23, while the failed translation, where the model answers the question instead of translating it, has a BLEU score of 39. For the purpose of our experiment, a success- ful translation will be considered as one that show signs of translating the source question in the target language, even with poor translation quality, while a failed translation is of the one that answers the questions (in either source or target language, irre- spective of the truthfulness of the answer). Thus, we introduce another simple heuristic to measure the performance of the model output specifically for this experiment. That is, for each model and language pair, we count how many translation out- put sentences end with a question mark, as every sentence in the reference ends with a question mark. For the model output that doesn’t end with a ques- tion mark, we will assume it is answering the ques- tion or outputting irrelevant content. We call this metric question mark accuracy and will be referred to as accuracy thereafter. 3 Experiments Due to limitations of the models and our own bud- get and time constraints, we do not evaluate all translation directions and prompting strategies on all model families. We perform the following ex- periments (table 1): • OpenAI models: En↔De, En↔Fr and En↔Ru translation directions, with one-shot prompting (Fu and Khot, 2022). • T5 and FLAN-T5 models: En→De, En→Fr and En→Ro translation directions, zero-shot. These are the translation directions evaluated in the original papers, note that these models do not seem to be able to translate from non- English languages. model size language pair GPT-3 350M,1.3B,6.7B,175B En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ru InstructGPT 350M,1.3B,6.7B,175B En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ru T5 61M,223M,738M,3B En→De, En→Fr, En→Ro FLAN-T5 61M,223M,738M,3B En→De, En→Fr, En→Ro Llama2 7B,13B,70B En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ro, En↔Ru Llama2-chat 7B,13B,70B En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ro, En↔Ru Table 1: Overview of the model series and the language pairs • Llama2 and Llama2-chat models: En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ro and En↔Ru translation di- rections, both zero-shot and one-shot. The experiments are divided into two parts: We first report our results of the clean examples in section 3.1, then report the results of adversarial examples in section 3.2. We only report the ac- curacy in this section, the BLEU scores of each experiment can be found in appendix C. In section 3.3, we display the average perfor- mance of X-to-English language