−1 ΦM(v)dv. Also, note that a random prediction margin Mrand with a uniform distribution over [−1, 1] satisfies R 1 −1 ΦMrand(v)dv = 1. Therefore, R 1 −1 ΦM(v)dv > 1 = R 1 −1 ΦMrand(v)dv only assumes a better-than-random prediction margin. 19 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models F.3. Proof and detailed remark of Prop. 3 Remarks. Eq. (6) shows the lower bound of the expectation of the retrieved positive examples by the retrieval model. (R1) For a sufficiently large number of instances in the external knowledge base Next (a typical scenario in practice), the lower bound approximately scales with 0.9Nrag and this scaling occurs at an exponential rate with respect to Next. These findings imply that with a large external knowledge base, a large ratio of the retrieved examples is positive (i.e., with the same groundtruth output), which is valuable as the retrieved positive examples which share similar semantic meanings as the query examples can improve in-context learning of LLMs (Min et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022a). To formulate this observation in a rigorous way, we theoretically show the benefits of retrieved positive in-context examples in achieving low conformal generation risks in Thm. 1. (R2) The lower bound of the expected retrieved positive examples also correlates with the balance in the external knowledge base (i.e., r(c) ext ). The correlation implies that if the knowledge base is highly long-tailed such that samples of certain reference texts are rare (i.e., r(c) ext is small), we require a larger sample size of knowledge base Next to compensate for the long-tail distribution and achieve comparable retrieval quality. (R3) The bound also shows that a low-variance retrieval model (i.e., a small Vrag) can generalize well to test distribution and induce a better retrieval quality. Proof sketch. We first formulate the expectation of similarity difference between positive pairs and negative pairs E[sθr(x, x+) −sθr(x, x−)] as a function of the contrastive loss of the retrieval model Lτ. Then, we apply Cheby- shev’s inequality to upper bound the failure probability P[sθ(x, x+) < sθ(x, x−)] as a function of Vrag. We then derive a lower bound of the number of retrieved positive examples, which follows a binomial distribution with Nrag trials and the failure rate as a function of Vrag. We finally correct the bound with the finite-sample errors of the knowledge base by the tail bound of categorical distribution. Proof of Prop. 3. Let D be the data distribution, which is also the training distribution of the retrieval model, conformal calibration distribution, and test distribution. For a sample (x, y) ∼D, we denote D+ ext(x), D− ext(x) be the distribution of positive examples (with the same groundtruth output y) and negative examples (with different groundtruth output to y) of sample x in the external knowledge base. Then we can formulate the expectation of contrastive loss of the retrieval model as: Lτ = Ex∼D,x+∼D+ ext(x),x−∼D− ext(x)  Lcontrastive(x, x+, x−)  = Ex∼D,x+∼D+ ext(x),x−∼D− ext(x)  −log exp {sθ(x, x+)} exp