domains. The RAG-end2end model shows better performance than the original RAG and improves DPR perfor- mance more effectively than ﬁnetuning. pre-trained BART DPR (Pretrained dense retriever) uses 2 BERT models, FAISS indexing Evaluating Retrieval Quality in Retrieval- Augmented Genera- tion [27] This study presents eRAG, a method where each document in the retrieval list is indi- vidually used by the LLM, and the output is evaluated against ground truth labels for downstream tasks. Experiments show that eRAG improves corre- lation with downstream RAG performance and Kendall’s tau, while also being up to 50 times more efﬁcient in GPU memory usage compared to end-to-end evaluations. T5-small with Fusion-in- Decoder (FiD) as LLM, Mistral for evaluation of retrieved documents BM25, Faiss Benchmarking Large Language Models in Retrieval- Augmented Genera- tion [28] This study evaluates LLMs on noise robust- ness, negative rejection, information integration, and counterfactual ro- bustness for RAG. Findings indicate that LLMs exhibit a certain degree of noise robust- ness, struggle in terms of negative rejection, information integration, and dealing with false information. ChatGPT- 3.5-turbo, ChatGLM-6B, ChatGLM2-6B, Vicuna-7B-v1.3, Qwen-7B-Chat, BELLE-7B-2M Google’s API for web search and an open-source dense retriever (not speciﬁed) Searching for Best Practices in Retrieval- Augmented Gen- eration [29] This study evaluates various solutions for RAG modules and recommends the most effective approach for each. he study ﬁnds that the best performance is achieved using the “Hy- brid with HyDE” method for retrieval, monoT5 for reranking, Reverse for repacking, and Recomp for summarization. GPT-3.5-turbo- 0125, GPT-3.5- turbo-instruct, Zephyr-7b- alpha, monoT5, monoBERT, TILDEv2, Ran- kLLaMA etc. Approaches - HyDE, Hybrid Search, databases - Weaviate, Faiss, Chroma, Qdrant, Milvus, etc. Active Retrieval Augmented Genera- tion [30] This paper introduces FLARE, which gener- ates a temporary next sentence to retrieve rel- evant documents based on low-probability to- kens. Findings show that FLARE performs better than single-time retrieval on four benchmarked datasets Any LLM but they used gpt-3.5- turbo, GPT-3.5 text-davinci-003 FLARE Continued on next page 5 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented Generation Research Paper Summary Main Findings Models Retrieval Retrieval-augmented Generation across Heterogeneous Knowledge [31] This study provides solutions on RAG methods across hetero- geneous knowledge Solutions like homogeniz- ing different knowledge, multi-virtual hops re- trieval, and reasoning over structured knowl- edge for RAG across heterogeneous data. T5 Dense retriever model DPR Corrective Retrieval Augmented Genera- tion [32] This study introduces Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation (CRAG) as a retrieval evaluator to enhance the robustness of RAG approaches. Experiments on four datasets show that CRAG signiﬁcantly enhances RAG-based performance in both short- and long- form tasks. s LLaMA2- chat13B, Chat- GPT, CoVE65B LLaMA2- 7B,13B, Alpaca- 7B,13B, SAIL, T5-based Re- trieval Evaluator Despite the extensive research, there is a noticeable lack of ﬁeld studies and industry-shared experiences that could bridge the gap between theoretical research and practical application. For RAG systems to fully realize their potential, research must be conducted in tandem with industry implementations. This collaboration would help address real- world challenges, such as managing heterogeneous data sources, integrating separate