stories, we still observe some level of toxicity in them. This toxicity in modern actual stories is often related to the narrative of the story. For example, threats and insults might be needed for some stories, but identity hate is not appropriate for children’s stories. It is noteworthy that modern stories do not have toxic text related to identity hate but older stories do. Similar to our previous observation, we see that LLMs tend to learn patterns from the context they are provided with. As evident from the stories gen- erated by OPT and LLaMA, we see that the toxicity aligns with older stories and gradually increases with an increase in the length of the context. The stories generated using the instruction-following model Alpaca tend to be less toxic and mostly re- semble modern stories. However, stories generated using the T1 and T3 templates have a lot of obscene text compared to stories generated using T2 and T4, which have none. As shown in Table 2, T1 and T3 take the title as input whereas T2 and T4 do not. It is possible that the model remembered the story title and generalized the patterns of the story or generalized to some other text in the template, leading to the generation of obscene text. This finding is consistent with Gehman et al. 2020, who suggest that children’s stories generated by LLMs can contain highly toxic text despite an innocuous prompt. Our analysis of toxicity in original and generated stories reveals that older stories tend to be more toxic than modern ones, that LLMs can learn toxic patterns from context leading to the generation of toxic text, and that LLMs can even generate toxic text from a very innocuous prompt. These findings suggest that further work is needed to make LLMs useful as tools for generating age-appropriate chil- dren’s literature. 7 Generated stories share main topics with original stories After preprocessing the data, the original stories were found to have four major topics. All of the topics tended to share the existence of some small character. The first topic mentions elements such as time, goodness, and greatness, and the presence of words like head, round, night, and water likely indicate specific scenes or settings within the narra- tive. The second topic contained new elements like a prince, the color white, a girl, and eyes. These additional keywords suggest different perspectives within the overarching narrative. The third topic introduces elements like a house and a heart. Like the previous topics, it shares mentions of a little character, time, goodness, and a prince. The differ- ence between ’house’ and ’heart’ could indicate a change in the setting or moral of the narrative. The last topic introduces new elements of wolf, peo- ple, eyes, and a mother. These keywords might suggest narratives that introduce new characters and themes. Overall, these topics provide insight into the underlying themes present in the older 122 stories in the data set. The topics revolve around narratives involving a small