Complex Answer Retrieval 15 are not linked (e.g., the Wikipedia guidelines suggest only linking the ﬁrst mention of an entity in an article, leaving out subsequent mentions from the graph). Edge labels are limited to only the emax = 1000 most frequently-used labels. We test both versions of the graph when evaluating the performance of using knowledge graph embedding scores. We train HolE embeddings using the link graph for 5,000 iterations (we found this to be enough iterations for the training to converge), and choose the embeddings from the epoch with the lowest error rate. When picking which entity scores to include in the model, we use top nnentscores = 2 similarities (this matches the document term pooling parameter k in PACRR). 4.1.3 Training and evaluation We train and evaluate several variations of the PACRR model to explore the ef- fectiveness of each approach. We train each model for 80 epochs with samples from train.fold1-2 (we found this to be adequate based on pilot experi- ments). Automatic relevance judgments serve as a source of relevant docu- ments, and we use the top non-relevant BM25 documents as negative training examples. Negative samples are used for the pairwise loss function used to train PACRR, and BM25 results oﬀer higher-quality negative samples than random paragraph would (e.g., these examples have matching terms, whereas random paragraphs likely would not).5 For each positive sample, we include 6 negative samples. To a point, including more negative samples has been shown to improve the performance of PACRR at the expense of training time [16]; we found 6 negative samples to be an eﬀective balance between the two consider- ations. The training iteration that yields the highest R-Precision value on the validation dataset (test200) is selected for evaluation on the test dataset. We then rerank the top 100 BM25 results for each query in benchmarkY1test, and test using the manual and automatic relevance judgments. For each conﬁgu- ration, we report the 4 oﬃcial TREC CAR metrics: Mean Average Precision (MAP), R-Precision (R-Prec), Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), and normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (nDCG). We compare the results to an unmod- iﬁed version of PACRR trained using the same approach, the initial BM25 ranking, and the other top approaches submitted to TREC. 4.2 Results We present the performance of our methods on CAR in Table 5. Overall, the results show that our methods perform favorably compared to the unmodiﬁed 5 We acknowledge that some paragraphs included as negative training samples, if in- spected manually, would be found relevant due to the limitations of the automatic relevance judgments. We deem this as okay, considering the high occurrence of non-relevant documents in the manual relevance judgments, and the comparatively poor performance of BM25 at CAR. 16 Sean MacAvaney et al. Table 5 Performance results on test using manual and automatic relevance judgments. Manual is evaluated both including and excluding documents without relevance judgments. The top value in each section is in bold. Records marked with * were included in the TREC document