includes them in the prompt. This approach aims to improve the understanding of the user profile and improve the performance of recommendations. Furthermore, GPT-FedRec [15] proposes a hybrid Retrieval Augmented Genera- tion mechanism to enhance privacy-preserving recommendations by using both an ID retriever and a text retriever. Despite the advancements, current methods have limitations. ReLLa relies primarily on text embeddings for retrieval, which is suboptimal as it overlooks collaborative semantic information from the item side in recommendations. The semantics learned from text are often inadequate as they typically only include titles and limited contextual information. GPT-FedRec does not incorporate user’s arXiv:2502.06101v2 [cs.IR] 11 Feb 2025 WWW Companion ’25, April 28-May 2, 2025, Sydney, NSW, Australia Jian Xu∗, Sichun Luo∗, Xiangyu Chen, Haoming Huang, Hanxu Hou†, and Linqi Song† Figure 1: RALLRec with embedding, retrieval and reranker. recent interest, and the ID based retriever and text retrieval are in a separate manner, which may not yield the best results. The inte- gration of text and collaborative information presents challenges as these modalities are not inherently aligned. In this work, we propose Representation Learning enhanced Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models for Recommendation (RALLRec). Our objective is to enhance the performance of retrieval- augmented LLM recommendations through improved representa- tion learning. Specifically, instead of solely relying on abbreviated item titles to extract item representations, we prompt the LLM to generate detailed descriptions for items utilizing its world knowl- edge. These generated descriptions are used to extract improved item representations. This representation is concatenated with the abbreviated item representation. Subsequently, we obtain collab- orative semantics for items using a recommendation model. This collaborative semantic is aligned with textual semantics through self-supervised learning to produce the final representation. This en- hanced representation is used to retrieve items, thereby improving Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Model recommendations. In a nutshell, our contribution is threefold. • We propose RALLRec, which incorporates collaborative informa- tion and learns joint representations to retrieve more relevant items, thereby enhancing the retrieval-augmented large language model recommendation. • We design a novel reranker that takes into account both the semantic similarity to the target item and the timestamps for boosting the validness of RAG. • With extensive explorations of the training and prompting strate- gies, the experiments reveal several interesting findings and vali- date the effectiveness of our method. 2 METHODOLOGY 2.1 Framework Pipeline The pipeline of the developed framework is illustrated in Figure 1. The RALLRec encompasses both the retrieval and generation pro- cesses. In the retrieval process, we first learn a joint representation of users and items, allowing us to retrieve the most relevant items in semantic space. These items are then fused with the most recent items by a reranker and incorporated into the prompts. The con- structed prompts can be used solely for inference or to train a more effective model through instruction tuning (IT). For the generation Figure 2: Comparison of textual descriptions with fixed tem- plate (upper) and automatic generation (blow). phase, the base LLM responses to the prompt for