both two questions. At this point, the model will disregard any documents related to one sub-question. For example, in Table 6, it incorrectly states that Group D is the World Cup group for both France and Germany, while in fact Germany is actually assigned to Group E. (2) Ignoring Error (28% of the total). Sometimes, the model may ignore one of the sub-questions and only answer the other. This error occurs when the model lacks a complete understanding of the problem and fails to recognize that it consists of multiple sub-problems. As a result, the model only considers relevant documents for one sub-problem in order to generate an answer, disregarding the question posed by another sub-problem. For example, in Table 6, the model only provides the answer for the MVP of Super Bowl 2022 and does not consider 2023. (3) Misalignment Error (6% of the total). Sometimes, the model incorrectly identifies the documents for one sub- question as the documents for another sub-question, leading to misaligned answers. For example, in Table 6, the third an- swer has two errors: an ignoring error and a misalignment er- ror. Firstly, the model only mentioned the Best Picture of the 2023 (95th) Academy Awards, completely disregarding the 2022 awards. Additionally, it incorrectly stated that “CODA” is the Best Picture of 2023 when it was actually awarded as the Best Picture in 2022. The errors mentioned above are primarily caused by the limited understanding of complex questions, which hinders the ability to effectively utilize information from different sub-problems. The key lies in improving the model’s rea- soning capability. One possible solution is to use a chain-of- Acc Accdoc ED ED∗ CR ChatGPT-zh 91 17 1 3 33.33 Qwen-7B-Chat-zh 77 12 5 4 25.00 ChatGPT-en 89 9 8 7 57.14 Table 7: The result of counterfactual robustness. ACC is the accuracy (%) of LLMs without external documents. ACCdoc is the accuracy (%) of LLMs with counterfactual documents. ED and ED∗are error detection rates evaluated by exact matching and ChatGPT, respectively. CR is the error cor- rection rate. thought approach to break down complex problems (Zhou et al. 2023a; Xu et al. 2023b; Drozdov et al. 2023). How- ever, these methods slow down the inference speed and can- not provide timely responses. Results on Counterfactual Robustness testbed In order to ensure that LLMs possess relevant knowledge, we assess their performance by directly asking them ques- tions. However, we found that most LLMs struggle to an- swer them correctly. To ensure a more reasonable evalua- tion, we only consider LLMs that have an accuracy rate of over 70% as this threshold is relatively high and encom- passes more LLMs. The results are shown in Table 7. We present the following metrics: accuracy without any docu- ments, accuracy with counterfactual documents, error de- tection rates, and error correction rates. We can see that It is hard for LLMs to identify and correct factual errors in the documents. This suggests that the model can be easily mis- led by