Survey of Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation in Large Language Models 15 Algorithm 4 Adaptive Retrieval Strategy in RAG Require: Query 𝑞, Documents 𝐷, Maximum Iterations 𝑁, Retriever 𝑅, Generator 𝐺, Pre-retrieval Function 𝐹𝑝𝑟𝑒, Post-retrieval Function 𝐹𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡, Adaptive Adjustment Function 𝐹𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑝𝑡, Feedback Function 𝐹𝑓𝑒𝑒𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘 Ensure: Final Output 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 1: Initialize 𝑖←1 // Start iteration counter 2: 𝑞′,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡←𝑞, ∅ // Initialize query and context 3: while 𝑖≤𝑁do 4: Pre-retrieval Phase 5: 𝑞′,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡←𝐹𝑝𝑟𝑒(𝑞′,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) // Query Manipulation, Indexing, Data Modification, and Context Setup 6: Dynamic Retrieval Phase 7: 𝐷𝑖←𝑅(𝑞′, 𝐷,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) // Retrieve documents based on the current query and context 8: Adaptive Post-retrieval Phase 9: 𝐷′ 𝑖←𝐹𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝑞′, 𝐷𝑖,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) // Re-ranking and filtering based on adaptive criteria 10: Generation Phase 11: 𝑦𝑖←𝐺(𝑞′, 𝐷′ 𝑖,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡) // Generate output using the refined documents 12: Adaptive Adjustment 13: if 𝐹𝑓𝑒𝑒𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘(𝑦𝑖, 𝐷′ 𝑖) is negative then 14: 𝑞′,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡←𝐹𝑎𝑑𝑎𝑝𝑡(𝑞′,𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡,𝑦𝑖, 𝐷′ 𝑖) // Dynamically adjust the query and context 15: end if 16: Feedback Integration 17: if 𝐹𝑓𝑒𝑒𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘(𝑦𝑖) is positive then 18: BREAK // Stop iterations if output is satisfactory 19: end if 20: 𝑖←𝑖+ 1 // Increment iteration counter 21: end while 22: Final Synthesis 23: 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙←SynthesizeResults({𝑦1,𝑦2, . . . ,𝑦𝑖}) // Merge results 24: return 𝑦𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 selecting and combining these strategies, RAG systems can be tailored to effectively handle a wide range of information retrieval scenarios, leveraging the strengths of each approach to deliver robust and precise results. 5 Post-Retrieval 5.1 Re-Ranking As retrieval mechanisms often return a large number of potentially relevant documents, re-ranking methods are employed to reorder these documents, prioritizing those most likely to contribute meaningfully to the final output. By leveraging various strategies, including unsupervised tech- niques, supervised learning, and data augmentation, re-ranking aims to optimize the alignment between the retrieved content and the desired response, thereby improving the overall effectiveness of RAG systems [165]. Unsupervised Re-ranking. Unsupervised re-rankers do not rely on labeled data for training. They use strategies such as pointwise, listwise, or pairwise methods to rank documents based on LLM outputs without the need for supervised fine-tuning. For example, In-Context RALM [112] employs , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: August 2018. 16 Huang et al. a zero-shot approach where an off-the-shelf language model is used to re-rank the top-k documents retrieved by a BM25 retriever. This process involves selecting the document that maximizes the likelihood of the generated text, effectively using the LM’s semantic understanding to improve document relevance without requiring additional supervised training. The paper also explores training a dedicated re-ranker using self-supervised learning to further enhance the selection of relevant documents, demonstrating that training a re-ranker with domain-specific data can be more effective than zero-shot re-ranking. Supervised Re-ranking. Supervised re-rankers involve fine-tuning LLMs on specific ranking datasets. This category can be further divided into models like BERT that process query-document pairs to compute relevance scores, models like T5 that treat ranking as a generation task and use generated tokens to determine relevance, and models like RankLLaMA [95] that employ a prompt-based approach, focusing on the last token’s representation