knowledge from external sources such as Wikipedia [7], news articles [8], and medical publications [9], RAG enables accurate, relevant, and up-to-date responses. This capability has led to its integration in various real-world applications [10–12]. Preprint. Under review. arXiv:2406.00083v2 [cs.CR] 6 Jun 2024 However, the use of RAGs, especially with external corpora, introduces a new attacking surface, thus introducing potential security vulnerabilities. Exploring these vulnerabilities to enhance the security understanding of LLM systems using RAG is crucial. Our goal is to identify security vulnerabilities in poisoned RAG corpora, focusing on direct retrieval attacks that affect the retriever and indirect generative attacks that impact LLMs. Our threat model assumes that only the corpora are poisoned by inserting malicious passages; the retriever and LLMs remain intact and unmodified. Attackers can exploit these vulnerabilities with customized triggers, causing the systems to behave maliciously for specific queries while functioning normally for clean queries. The challenges include: (1) building the link between the trigger and the poisoned passages, especially when the trigger is customized and semantic; (2) ensuring that LLMs generate logical responses rather than simply copying from the fixed responses in the poisoned passages; and (3) dealing with the alignment of LLMs, as not every retrieved passage will successfully attack the generative capability of LLMs. Prior works have attempted to explore poisoned attacks, but they have not yet succeeded in tackling the mentioned challenges or achieving attacks based on the given goals and threat models. For example, previous works [13–15] do not construct retrieval attacks conditional on triggers. Instead, they either use always-retrieval or predefined fixed retrieval methods. Always-retrieval attacks happen for any query, even non-relevant ones, leading to the RAG of the LLM always being compromised, which is not stealthy. Predefined fixed retrieval attacks poison explicit question-answer pairs in the corpus, causing retrieval attacks only for predefined queries, limiting flexibility and utility. Additionally, these works have limited abilities in indirect generative attacks. [13] does not consider or test generative attacks. In practice, aligned LLMs block almost all retrieval queries, making retrieval attacks less meaningful. Although PoisonedRAG [14] and GARAG [15] consider attacking effectiveness on the LLM’s generation, their answers mostly copy from the poisoned passages instead of generating original content. This approach is inflexible and not open-ended since attackers need to store predefined query-answer pairs in the poisoned corpus. Furthermore, the query-answer pairs are often close-ended (e.g., "Who is the CEO of OpenAI?") and not suitable for open-ended questions (e.g., "Analyze Trump’s immigration policy"). Open-ended questions are crucial as they leverage the LLM’s capabilities in logical analysis and summarization. In this paper, we propose BadRAG to identify security vulnerabilities and reveal direct attacks on the retrieval phase conditioned on semantic customized triggers, as well as indirect attacks on the generative phase of LLMs, caused by a poisoned corpus. Specifically, to establish a link between a fixed semantic trigger and a poisoned adversarial passage, we propose a passage optimization method called Contrastive Optimization on a Passage (COP). This method models the passage optimization procedure as