2025; Hu et al., 2025) further leverage hyperedges to model high-order concepts like processes and events to establish associative paths among multiple entities. Although these methods have built structured memory banks with semantic links, their homogeneous modeling often iso- lates basic and high-order knowledge as structurally dis- parate nodes and edges. This architectural misalignment leads to costly, fragmented retrieval, resulting in poor multi- hop reasoning and generalization (Jimenez Gutierrez et al., 2024). Therefore, recent work (Xu et al., 2025; Guti´errez et al., 2025) employs heterogeneous graphs to align memo- ries within a unified relevance space to mitigate this limita- tion, but the resulting connections remain limited to binary relations and lack systematic modeling. Consequently, such disordered, low-order connectivity fundamentally limits the depth of memory association and reasoning. How can RAG’s memory retrieval be optimized without significant computational overhead? Inspired by human 1 arXiv:2602.07525v1 [cs.IR] 7 Feb 2026 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory A E couple treat G Q 1: Who is A’s wife? A1: E is the wife of A So easy, i know A and E are a couple. A2: I think he is a doctor because his friends A and B have treated G together, and A is a doctor. C friends A B treat G couple Q2: What might be C's occupation? It's a bit difficult. I don't know the occupation of C. Stage 1: Structured Memory construction Stage 2: Intuition Instantly Emerging Stage 3: Reasoning Dynamically Q3: Please briefly describe the marital status of couples from A to H. A3: A and E are a couple and are respectively a doctor and a lawyer. They... There is another couple, D and F. D is an athlete and F is also a lawyer. They... It's too difficult, b e c a u s e I n e e d more information to describe clearly! Let me think it over carefully. couple A E D F colleague teammate treat G H couple Stage 4: Answering Accordingly Relation Memory Space Event Memory Space B? C? treat G friends Atomic Entity Memory Space teammate H is a football player... colleague A is a male doctor... couple E is a lawyer... couple D? F? Figure 1. Stage 1 represents the formation of human memory, while Stage 2–Stage 4 represent intuition-guided reasoning mechanism in human cognition. Upon query encounter, we instantaneously assess and retrieve memory anchors, followed by deeper associative recall. intuition-guided reasoning, we propose IGMiRAG, a novel framework featuring a more authentic memory architec- ture. As illustrated in Stage 1 of Figure 1, the human brain organizes knowledge into a hierarchical associative network. This structure arises from inherent deductive path- ways: high-order memories aggregate multiple low-order atomic facts, while single atoms contribute to various high- level concepts. Thus, knowledge is stored in a hierarchy that integrates multi-order associations. Grounded in this, IG- MiRAG emulates this structure using a Hierarchical Hetero- geneous Hypergraph, where heterogeneous vertices repre- sent multi-granular knowledge and hierarchical hyperedges model deductive pathways. This