arXiv:2506.06962v3 [cs.CV] 14 Jun 2025 AR-RAG: Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation for Image Generation Jingyuan Qi* 1 Zhiyang Xu* 1 Qifan Wang2 Lifu Huang3 1Virginia Tech 2Meta 3 UC Davis jingyq1@vt.edu (a) Vanilla Image Generation Prompt (c) Patch-based Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation (Ours) ... Augmentation Generation Prompt Generated Image Generated Image (b) Image-Based Retrieval Augmentation Prompt Generated Image Retrieved Images ... Query Key Query Key Query Value Key Retrieval Value Value ? ? Next Image Patch ? Figure 1: Comparison between Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation (AR-RAG) for image generation in (c) and existing image generation paradigms in (a) (b). In AR-RAG, image patches in red boxes denote retrieval queries and keys, image patches in blue boxes are retrieved values, and gray boxes with the question mark are next image patches to be predicted. (Caption: A white cat is playing basketball on the court.) Abstract We introduce Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation (AR-RAG), a novel paradigm that enhances image generation by autoregressively incorporating k- nearest neighbor retrievals at the patch level. Unlike prior methods that perform a single, static retrieval before generation and condition the entire generation on fixed reference images, AR-RAG performs context-aware retrievals at each gen- eration step, using prior-generated patches as queries to retrieve and incorporate the most relevant patch-level visual references, enabling the model to respond to evolving generation needs while avoiding limitations (e.g., over-copying, stylis- tic bias, etc.) prevalent in existing methods. To realize AR-RAG, we propose two parallel frameworks: (1) Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD), a training-free plug-and-use decoding strategy that directly merges the distribu- tion of model-predicted patches with the distribution of retrieved patches, and (2) Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD), a parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that progressively smooths the features of retrieved patches via multi-scale convolution operations and leverages them to augment the image generation pro- cess. We validate the effectiveness of AR-RAG on widely adopted benchmarks, 1Jingyuan Qi and Zhiyang Xu contributed equally to this work. Preprint. Under review. including Midjourney-30K, GenEval and DPG-Bench, demonstrating significant performance gains over state-of-the-art image generation models.1 1 Introduction Recent advancements in image generation have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in producing photorealistic images based on user prompts [31, 28, 7, 37, 10, 41, 9, 43, 45, 27, 6]. However, despite these improvements, the generated images often exhibit local distortions and inconsistencies, particularly in visual objects that possess complex structures [11], frequently interact with other objects and the surrounding scene [22, 26], or are underrepresented in the training data [8]. A promising approach to mitigating these challenges is retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), which enhances the generation process by incorporating real-world images as additional references [8, 3]. While RAG has been extensively explored in the language domain [23, 13], its application to image and multimodal generation remains largely underdeveloped. A few existing studies [3, 8, 46, 48, 49] bridge this gap by performing a single-step retrieval based on the input prompt prior to generation, conditioning the entire image generation process on fixed visual cues (Figure 1 (b)). However, as demonstrated in our pilot study (Section 5.2), such static, coarse-grained