(5) d score = fm X fi Avg (d score e + d score v) (6) 2) Re-rank Stage: One of the most crucial distinguishing features of procurement documents is the purchase lists, each with unique requirements and policy terms associated with different procurement items. When a purchaser submits a purchase list, the document lists obtained from the previous step will be re-prioritized according to the similarity between their historical purchase lists and the requirements of the current purchase list. In this process, we analyze similarity on an individual item basis and then iterate through each historical list denoted as h list to aggregate similarity scores by comparing the item in the current list c list with each one in each h list. The similarity metrics employed include n-gram distance, edit distance, and embedding cosine distance. To mitigate significant differences in list lengths, when computing the overall score for h list , we aggregate the similarity scores of each item in c list and then adjust by adding the difference in the lengths of the two lists as a penalty term. item dist = embedding dist −n gram dist + −edit dist 3 (7) list dist = P|item| item disti + α|len(h list) −len(c list)| len(c list) (8) The document of highest similarity score will be used as the template in next process. B. Template Filling Module with Smart Tags The detailed information provided by a new purchaser may deviate from the retrieved document. We utilize LLM to adjust the document based on the new purchaser’s information. before storing tender documents in the document corpus We incorporate smart tags for procurement parameters to preprocess them. Our framework facilitates seamless customization of tender documents by utilizing a standardized style in Word templates. The public tender notice should include important information such as the procuring entity, project details (including bidder qualifications, tender document availability, and bid submission deadline), and contact person’s information. Prior to generating the tender document, users must provide us with the project details. These variables empower users to reference and manipulate data within the template. We apply the information retrieval agent for the task one, as shown in Table I. The retrieval agent will interact with the user until all the necessary information is obtained. Then, we utilize the content generation agent with instructions provided in Prompt 1. Task: Smart Tags Filling Prompt 1. You are an assistant with the purpose of generating a document with the available information. You have the following information: Accumulated information. Please fill the template tj. In such cases, we can utilize a Word plugin named as PageOffice or the Python package python-docx to modify the size, content, and style of both paragraphs and tables. TABLE I USER’S REQUIREMENT PARAMETER RETRIEVAL AGENT TASK Prompt Engineering for the User’s Information Parameter Filling Accumulated information: r Task description: I want you to fill this template {{t}} What is the missing information? Agent retrieval prompt: You are an assistant helping to search which information is missing. The