answer that can used to solve the question. This scenario means that the question is very difficult or the target knowledge is very long-tail for information retrieval systems. Even in this case, the retrieval model’s ability to model semantics allows it to provide texts that are semantically related to the question (Karpukhin et al., 2020). Therefore, the positive information gain in this scenario is that LLMs can stimulate the knowledge within their parameters based on semantically relevant context to solve the question. Target Wikipedia Document Intercept k consecutive sentences Simulated Retrieved Texts Initial Sentence Set … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝 … Prefix Target (a) Data Collection (b) Data Construction (c) Unsupervised multi-task learning … Prefix … … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … Randomly masking or replac- ement on informative tokens … … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … Eliminate 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … Keep 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝 … LLM 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝 … LLM 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝 … LLM 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡 … 𝑆𝑆 𝑆𝑆𝑆 𝑆𝑆−{𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙} 𝑝𝑝𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡= 𝑝𝑝𝜃𝜃([𝑆𝑆; 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝]) 𝑝𝑝𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡= 𝑝𝑝𝜃𝜃([𝑆𝑆𝑆; 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝]) 𝑝𝑝𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡= 𝑝𝑝𝜃𝜃([𝑆𝑆−{𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙}; 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝]) Select and Copy Contextual Stimulation Correct and Complete Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … 𝑆𝑆 … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … 𝑆𝑆 … … 𝑠𝑠1 𝑠𝑠2 𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑘 … 𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 … … 𝑆𝑆 … 𝓡𝓡(𝑠𝑠𝑙𝑙 𝑝𝑝) 𝑆𝑆 Figure 2: Overview of our INFO-RAG. Each sample is only processed for a single scenario to avoid data leakage. 3.2 Unsupervised Learning This section introduces unsupervised learning in INFO-RAG. We construct the input-output pairs that satisfy the information gain in the above three scenarios on Wikipedia. We continue to train pre- trained LLMs on the constructed data to perform information refinement in the form of next token prediction in prefix language modeling, which is general for various tasks. Pipeline is in Figure 2. 3.2.1 Data Collection The data construction is performed on English Wikipedia. Specifically, for each document d in Wikipedia, we intercept k consecutive sentences from d and get the sentence set S = [s1, s2, ..., sk]. Our method randomly selects sl from S and uses it as the object for language modeling. The first 1 3 to 2 3 of the tokens of sl are randomly intercepted as the prefix (sp l ) and the other tokens of sl are used as the prediction target (st l). We also perform the process (Section 3.2.2) on sentence set S so that it can be used to simulate the retrieved texts R(sp l ) for prefix sp l in three scenarios for conditioning the generation of st l. Then, we can get an unsupervised training sample for prefix language modeling that predicts st l given the prefix sp l and the retrieved texts R(sp l ). This can be formulated as: p(st l) = pθ([R(sp l ); sp l ]), (1)