judgment (Srivastava et al. 2022),Causal Discovery (Causal Parrots), and Knowledge Base Facts) (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023). An example from (Gao et al. 2023) is shown in Figure 1. We argue here that performing well on such tasks does not sufficiently demonstrate the causal reasoning ability of lan- guage models. One reason is the inherent design of the tasks as multiple-choice. The LLMs are given limited options to choose from, sometimes only the two options ‘cause’ and ‘effect’. This lack of ‘open-endness’ restricts the evaluation of whether LLMs can identify possibilities in a more abstract sense. In other words, given that many of these datasets are directly crafted from basic NLP tasks, by abusing the under- lying correlation structure of the data, such as calculating similarities between options and questions in a vector space (e.g., cause-effects pairs in Wang et al. (2022)), LLMs can achieve good performance without actually doing any causal reasoning. If this is the case, the good performance could be attributable to spurious language cues in the datasets, since the underlying mechanism of identifying causal relation is merely from the language used. Examples of simple word replacements with less precise words in prompts (for exam- ple ‘pets’ instead of ‘cats’ in questions about food to be fed to the animal) led to a drop in performance (Li, Yu, and Et- tinger 2022), contributing to this hypothesis. Figure 1: An example of causal relation identification tasks. Overall, such tasks constrain the space of causal reasoning that the LLM has to act in, neglecting other types of causal relations (e.g., temporal or spacial, correlative, counterfac- tual, etc.), allowing targeted training for these highly specific contexts, rather than a general causal reasoning ability which we are interested in. Furthermore, since the LLMs are forced to make a selection, they tend to assume causal relationships between events regardless of whether those relationships ac- tually exist, thus not being able to identify ‘causal rather than correlative” relationships which is crucial in causal reason- ing tasks. Commonsense knowledge: a necessary but not suffi- cient condition for causal reasoning. Another commonly seen group of datasets and tasks allow and do not exclude the possibility of knowledge retrieval, for example, com2sense (Singh et al. 2021), winowhy (Zhang, Zhao, and Song 2020), tellmewhy (Lal et al. 2021), Neuropathic-pain-diagnosis (Tu et al. 2019; Tu, Ma, and Zhang 2023), moral permissibil- ity, human organs senses, simple ethical questions, goal step wikihow (Zhang, Lyu, and Callison-Burch 2020), (Srivas- tava et al. 2022), intuive physics(Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023), ART (Liu et al. 2023). The motivation of these tasks is to test if LLMs have ac- quired commonsense knowledge from everyday experience and can draw sound, intuitive inferences like a human, and hence ground causal reasoning on commensense knowledge (e.g., Figure 2 and 3). Note that in some tasks LLMs are not even provided with specific in-context data supporting the causal reasoning (e.g., in Tu, Ma, and Zhang (2023), no context is provided to ChatGPT before authors submit queries), further indicating that