if the model memorizes the answer. We see, however (e.g., for the relation "place of death"), that adding generated Wikipedia pages will decrease the performance from 38.3% to 33.8%. Using LOO to prune the retrieval corpus improves performance by 39.9% on average. Reweighting or pruning using the learned multilinear extension weights achieves the highest accuracy of 41.0% and 41.8%, improving the performance on the corpus without fabricated Wikipedia sources. The results show that the learned weights help the model to easily adapt to new knowledge sources without further training. 3.5 Computational Performance Experimental setup. Finally, we illustrate that the weights can be computed very fast in practice. For that, we implement our approach in Rust (with a Python frontend), and apply several performance optimizations to the code such as parallelization, memory pre-allocation and re-use, operator fusion, and predication [4, 18]. We run the experiments on consumer hardware (a machine with a four-core Intel i7-8569U CPU @2.80GHz, 16GB of RAM, and MacOS 12.6). We measure the runtime of our implementation on three relations from the Wikifact dataset (“author”, “place-of-birth”, “currency”), which contain 1,700-2,700 questions each, with 50 corresponding retrieved answers per question. We additionally run experiments on a synthetic retrieval corpus whose size M = N · b we scale up from 50,000 to 100,000,000 (with a validation set size N from 1,000 to 1000,000 times b = [50, 100] retrieved data points per sample). We run each configuration with one, two, and four threads, repeat each run seven times, and measure the mean execution time per epoch. Results and discussion. For the relations from WikiFact, a gradient update only takes between two and four milliseconds. We plot the results for the synthetic corpus in Figure 3. The x-axis is the size of the retrieval corpus M = N · b (size N of the validation set times the number of retrieved data points per sample b) and the y-axis denotes the mean runtime in milliseconds with a logarithmic scale. We see that with all four cores, we can finish an epoch for corpora with up to 10 million elements with a sub-second runtime. Even for the largest corpus with 100 million elements, an epoch can be conducted in 6.3 seconds on consumer hardware. Furthermore, we find that the runtime grows linearly with the size of the retrieval corpus and that our implementation easily benefits from parallelism when multiple cores are utilized. This showcases that data refinement using multilinear extension weights is computationally cheaper than model fine-tuning, which (in many cases) has to conduct an expensive backpropagation of errors through the underlying model. 4 Conclusion We presented efficient algorithms to compute the optimal weights that maximize the multilinear extension of the utility function and use them to refine the retrieval corpus for retrieval-augmented large language models. Overall, our results illustrate that the learned weights are a powerful metric for evaluating the quality of the retrieval corpus and that retrieval-augmented models can be enhanced by only pruning the retrieval corpus without further