im- prove sickle cell management by providing real-time information on anemia severity and reducing the frequency of vaso-occlusive crises by incorporating Large Language Models (LLMs) and specialized ML models to assess anemia severity in sickle cell patients in real-time. Reliable nano-engineered sensors are 5 critical to dependably measure indicators of elevated angiogenesis progenitors levels to assess anemia severity and to provide real-time information to patients and clinicians to reduce the frequency of vaso-occlusive crises by allowing for timely interventions and potentially reducing the likelihood of serious compli- cations. While the development of such a device presents some challenges, es- pecially the creation of a reliable nano-engineered vibro-acoustic sensing device, a biophysics model, and the practical consideration of an LLM communicating with emergency personnel on behalf of an incapacitated patient, the poten- tial beneﬁts of such a device for sickle cell management make it a worthwhile endeavor. With further research and development, this technology has the po- tential to improve the lives of many sickle cell patients in developing countries. References [1] Olorunfemi Emmanuel Amoran, Ahmed Babatunde Jimoh, Omotola Ojo, and Temitope Kuponiyi. Prevention practices inﬂuencing frequency of oc- currence of vaso-occlusive crisis among sickle cell patients in abeokuta south local government area of ogun state, nigeria. BMC hematology, 17:1–7, 2017. [2] Flavia CM Lopes, Fabiola Traina, Camila B Almeida, Flavia C Leonardo, Carla F Franco-Penteado, Vanessa T Garrido, Marina P Colella, Raquel Soares, Sara T Olalla-Saad, Fernando F Costa, et al. Key endothelial cell angiogenic mechanisms are stimulated by the circulating milieu in sickle cell disease and attenuated by hydroxyurea. haematologica, 100(6):730, 2015. [3] Solomon F Ofori-Acquah, Iris D Buchanan, Ifeyinwa Osunkwo, Jerry Manlove-Simmons, Feyisayo Lawal, Alexander Quarshie, Arshed A Quyyumi, Gary H Gibbons, and Beatrice E Gee. Elevated circulating angio- genic progenitors and white blood cells are associated with hypoxia-inducible angiogenic growth factors in children with sickle cell disease. Anemia, 2012, 2012. [4] Oluwatosin Ogundare. An analysis of electrocardiograms in developing sta- tistical learning models for instantaneous sleep quality and sleep potential prediction. PhD thesis, 2018. [5] Oluwatosin Ogundare. An analysis of electrocardiograms for instantaneous sleep potential determination. The Open Biomedical Engineering Journal, 13(1), 2019. [6] Oluwatosin Ogundare. Statistical learning models for sleep quality prediction using electrocardiograms. The Open Biomedical Engineering Journal, 13(1), 2019. [7] Oluwatosin Ogundare, Srinath Madasu, and Nathanial Wiggins. Industrial engineering with large language models: A case study of chatgpt’s perfor- mance on oil & gas problems, 2023. 6 [8] Karl Perktold, Michael Resch, and Reinfried O Peter. Three-dimensional numerical analysis of pulsatile ﬂow and wall shear stress in the carotid artery bifurcation. Journal of Biomechanics, 24(6):409–420, 1991. [9] Subuola Sofolahan. The development and characterization of a novel three- dimensional angiogenesis tissue model for testing an anti-angiogenesis drug. Oklahoma State University, 2010. 7