a greater threat to the MediaWiki API than the other two attacks. Further analysis reveals that within substitution attacks, deletion operations prove more effective than insertions, corroborating our findings on the performance of insertion and deletion attacks. For NewsAPIs, although the ASR for substitution attacks is lower than for deletion, it significantly exceeds that of insertion attacks. 3.3 DISCUSSION Based on the experiment results, we analyze and summerize several factors that affect the attack performance as follows. Table 3 also provides some samples where attacks are unsuccessful among the majority of the successful attacks, and our explanations. Conflicting Knowledge Injection: If the manipulated information contradicts the LLM’s internal knowledge, it might resist the attack, while LLMs might be more susceptible when they lack sufficient internal knowledge to identify inconsistencies. For example, removing location information makes it difficult for LLMs to identify the correct location, leading to a successful attack, but if the remaining weather data is unique to a specific region, the LLM might still be able to make an accurate guess. Reasoning Capabilities: LLMs with better reasoning capabilities are more likely to resist attacks by identifying and disregarding inconsistencies, while LLMs with weaker capabilities are more susceptible to manipulation. For example, inserting a random temperature data point might be disregarded by the LLM, while subtly changing the temperature by a few degrees might be successful. Attack Quality The techniques used to conduct the attack can affect the experiment result. In our experimental setting, attack performance can be affected by the named entity recognition techniques we use. Also, third-party APIs provide large amounts of information to LLMs, which at the same time can obstruct the attacker’s ability to locate and conduct attacks precisely in a systematic manner. 4 CONCLUSION Our paper presents three attacks on third-party APIs integrated into the LLM ecosystems. This integration becomes more perilous as LLMs are increasingly equipped with APIs to better respond to user requests by accessing up-to-date information, performing complex calculations, and invoking external services through their APIs. It also opens up more possibilities for research in security within LLM ecosystems, extending beyond the isolated language models and APIs. Future work involves various attack methods, the design of defense mechanisms targeting third-party API attacks, and security concerns arising from multiple third-party API interactions. 5 Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models REFERENCES Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901, 2020. Tianle Cai, Xuezhi Wang, Tengyu Ma, Xinyun Chen, and Denny Zhou. Large language models as tool makers, 2023. Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805, 2018. Robert M French. The turing test: the first 50 years. Trends in cognitive sciences, 4(3):115–122, 2000. Umar Iqbal, Tadayoshi Kohno, and Franziska Roesner. Llm platform security: Applying a systematic evaluation framework