Specifically, if "So the answer is" is absent from all of the model’s generations, during the evaluation phase, we append "So the an- swer is" to the end of the model’s output, prompting the model to generate again. Subsequently, we se- lect the words following "So the answer is" as the final answer. C Case Study We select the following question for case study: Question The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games can seat how many people? This is a complex question that requires identify- ing the Arena’s name as well as finding the seating capacity of the arena. Initial Output of the LLM The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games is the Androscog- gin Bank Colisée. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée has a seating capacity of 4,250. Therefore, the answer is 4,250. During the generation process of LLM, the RIND module identified that the LLM needs ex- ternal knowledge assistance when generating the first 4,250, thus triggering the QFS module for query generation. At this moment, the information need of the LLM is to find the seating capacity of Androscoggin Bank Colisée. Our proposed QFS generates a query based on the self-attention dis- tribution over the entire context, where the tokens selected by QFS are as follows in bold: The selected tokens for query formulation Question: The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games can seat how many people? </s> Answer: The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games is the Androscoggin Bank Colisée. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée has a seating capacity of | Thus, the QFS module generated the following query: The query generated by the QFS module seat Androscoggin Bank Colisée seating ca- pacity The generated query indeed reflects the real-time information needs of LLM. This query directly led to the retrieval of the relevant paragraph from Wikipedia: The top 1 retrieved document Androscoggin Bank Colisée The An- droscoggin Bank Colisée is a 4,000 capac- ity (3,677 seated) multi-purpose arena, in Lewiston, Maine, that opened in 1958. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée was built to ...... Thus, after including the retrieved passage to the LLM, it can then generate the correct answer: 3,677. The final revised output is as follows: Final Output The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games is the Androscog- gin Bank Colisée. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée has a seating capacity of 3,677. Therefore, the answer is 3,677. In contrast, the FLARE framework decides to trigger retrieval for the first sentence because the probability of the tokens ‘Lewiston’, ‘home’, ‘An- droscoggin’, and ‘Bank’ are all below the FLARE’s threshold: Initial output of the LLM The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games is the Androscoggin Bank Colisée. After that, FLARE generates the following query that removes all the tokens below the threshold from the first sentence: The generated query of FLARE The arena where the Maineiacs played their games is the Colisée. Unfortunately, the generated query omitted the correct information from the