underscore the growing academic interest in RAG. Table 1: Review of Researches Exploring Biases in Generative AI - De- tails by Research Paper Research Paper Summary Main Findings Models Retrieval Retrieval- Augmented Genera- tion for Knowledge- Intensive NLP Tasks [19] This paper introduces general-purpose ﬁne- tuning for RAG models by combining pre- trained parametric and non-parametric memory, speciﬁcally integrating a pre- trained seq2seq model with a neural retriever. The study ﬁnds that RAG models produce more speciﬁc, diverse, and factual language than a parametric-only seq2seq baseline, reducing "hallu- cinations" by grounding generated text in factual data. BART, BERT, RAG DPR A Survey on Retrieval- Augmented Text Generation [21] This survey summa- rizes key components of retrieval-augmented text generation, includ- ing retrieval metrics, sources, integration paradigms, and appli- cations like dialogue response generation and machine transla- tion. RAG beneﬁts dialogue systems, machine transla- tion, language modeling, and more, but still needs improvement in retrieval sensitivity, optimization, and multi-modalities. NA NA Retrieval- Augmented Gen- eration for AI- Generated Content: A Survey [22] This survey categorizes RAG by augmentation methods for retriev- ers and generators, discusses RAG appli- cations across various modalities and tasks, offering references for researchers and practitioners. This survey categorizes RAG based on the differ- ent methodologies and applications providing diagrammatic represen- tations. It discusses the limitations and provides future directions. NA NA Evaluation of Retrieval- Augmented Gen- eration: A Survey [23] This survey addresses RAG evaluation chal- lenges and proposes a Uniﬁed Evaluation Pro- cess focused on targets, datasets, and measures. The analysis highlights the need for benchmarks that link retrieval ac- curacy with generative quality, considering real-world applications. NA NA Continued on next page 4 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented Generation Research Paper Summary Main Findings Models Retrieval Retrieval- Augmented Gen- eration for Large Language Models: A Survey [24] This survey explores RAG paradigms (naive, advanced, and modu- lar RAG), key technolo- gies in retrieval, gen- eration, and augmen- tation, and introduces evaluation frameworks and benchmarks. The survey discusses op- timization strategies and retrieval types (iterative, recursive, and adaptive), and explores future prospects for scaling RAG for production- ready systems. NA NA Retrieval- Augmented Gen- eration for Natural Language Process- ing: A Survey [25] This survey reviews different techniques of RAG, especially in the retriever and the retrieval fusions. Provides algorithms for implementing and dis- cusses the RAG training for the application of RAG in representative natural language process- ing tasks and industrial scenarios NA NA Improving the do- main adaptation of retrieval augmented generation (RAG) models for open domain question answering [26] This paper introduces RAG-end2end, which uses an auxiliary training signal to incor- porate domain-speciﬁc knowledge and evalu- ates it across datasets from three domains. The RAG-end2end model shows better performance than the original RAG and improves DPR perfor- mance more effectively than ﬁnetuning. pre-trained BART DPR (Pretrained dense retriever) uses 2 BERT models, FAISS indexing Evaluating Retrieval Quality in Retrieval- Augmented Genera- tion [27] This study presents eRAG, a method where each document