level α and the empirical risks with different λg and Nrag for OpenAI/ada. generation risks. Notably, a higher Nrag reduces generation risks more effectively than adjusting λg. 7.5. Valid configurations given desired risk levels In risk guarantee (2) outlined in Sec. 4.3, given a desired risk level α, C-RAG computes a valid RAG configuration set ˆΛα, such that configurations within this set will lead to gen- eration risks below α. We apply the Bonferroni correction in Prop. 2 for rigorous family-wise error rate control and assess empirical risks on random test sets with the identified valid configurations. We provide the results on AESLC and CommenGen in Fig. 7 and results on DART and ECE in Fig. 15 in App. J.5. These results validate our certification, as the empirical risks of generated configurations ˆΛα are consistently below the given conformal generation risk α. The results also show that a high number of retrieved ex- amples Nrag and a larger generation set size λg contribute to reducing conformal generation risk. The impact of the diversity threshold λs is explored in App. J.5. In App. J.6, we provide comparisons of the conformal gen- eration risks for different LLMs as inference models. In App. J.7, we also provide a quantitative example to show how the constrained generation protocol benefits in reducing LLM hallucination risks. 8. Conclusion In this paper, we propose C-RAG to provide conformal gen- eration risk guarantees for RAG models. C-RAG certifies (1) a conformal generation risk for a given RAG configura- tion, and (2) a valid configuration set for a given desired risk level. We theoretically show that RAG reduces conformal generation risks of a single LLM. We empirically validate the soundness and tightness of our risk guarantees. Acknowledgements This work is partially supported by the National Science Foundation under grant No. 1910100, No. 2046726, No. 2229876, DARPA GARD, the National Aeronau- tics and Space Administration (NASA) under grant No. 80NSSC20M0229, the Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, the Ama- zon research award, and the eBay research award. Impact Statement The C-RAG framework is able to safeguard LLMs’ practical deployment and applications against ethical and societal concerns. Existing research shows that the responses of LLMs can be biased towards some demographic groups and not be aligned with human ethics. With C-RAG, we can define a bias/ethics risk function and control the generation risk below a desired level. The risk guarantee provided by C-RAG enhances the use of LLMs, addressing societal issues and regulatory infringements. We do not expect any negative societal consequences for our work. 9 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models References Agrawal, S. and Jia, R. Optimistic posterior sampling for reinforcement learning: worst-case regret bounds. Ad- vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 30, 2017. Angelopoulos, A. N., Bates, S., Candès, E. J., Jordan, M. I., and Lei, L. Learn then test: Calibrating predic- tive algorithms to achieve risk control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.01052, 2021. Angelopoulos, A. N., Bates, S., Fisch, A., Lei, L., and Schuster, T. Conformal risk control. arXiv