arXiv:2504.17204v1 [cs.HC] 24 Apr 2025 Factually: Exploring Wearable Fact-Checking for Augmented Truth Discernment CHITRALEKHA GUPTA, HANJUN WU, PRAVEEN SASIKUMAR, SHREYAS SRIDHAR, PRIAMBUDI BAGASKARA, and SURANGA NANAYAKKARA, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore Fig. 1. (a) A person using Factually in an everyday setting (b) Factually integrated with a smartwatch, (c) A companion mobile app. Wearable devices are transforming human capabilities by seamlessly augmenting cognitive functions. In this position paper, we propose a voice-based, interactive learning companion designed to amplify and extend cognitive abilities through informal learning. Our vision is threefold: (1) to enable users to discover new knowledge on-the-go through contextual interactive quizzes, fostering critical thinking and mindfulness; (2) to proactively detect misinformation, empowering users to critically assess information in real time; and (3) to provide spoken language correction and prompting hints for second language learning and effective communication. As an initial step toward this vision, we present Factually — a proactive, wearable fact-checking system integrated into devices like smartwatches or rings. Factually discreetly alerts users to potential falsehoods via vibrotactile feedback, helping them assess information critically. We demonstrate its utility through three illustrative scenarios1, highlighting its potential to extend cognitive abilities for real-time misinformation detection. Early qualitative feedback suggests that Factually can enhance users’ fact-checking capabilities, offering both practical and experiential benefits. CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing →Haptic devices; Mobile devices. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Assistive Augmentation, Fact-Checking, Wearable Assistant 1 INTRODUCTION Misinformation has become an unavoidable challenge in the digital age, with bite-sized falsehoods spreading rapidly across social media platforms and casual conversations. Fact-checking in real-time is inherently inconvenient, often socially awkward, and prone to being forgotten. Despite the rise of automated fact-checking systems, existing solutions typically require active engagement, such as searching for questionable claims, which disrupts natural conversations. This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. 1Concept Video Link Authors’ address: Chitralekha Gupta, chitralekha@nus.edu.sg; Hanjun Wu, michelle@ahlab.org; Praveen Sasikumar, praveen@ahlab.org; Shreyas Sridhar, shreyas@ahlab.org; Priambudi Bagaskara, bagas@ahlab.org; Suranga Nanayakkara, suranga@ahlab.org, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 1 2Chitralekha Gupta, Hanjun Wu, Praveen Sasikumar, Shreyas Sridhar, Priambudi Bagaskara, and Suranga Nanayakkara To address this gap, we present Factually, a wearable live fact-checking system designed to augment an individual’s ability to discern truth seamlessly. Factually integrates with everyday wearable devices such as smartwatches or rings to provide real-time, discreet feedback through vibrations when potentially false information is detected. The aim of Factually aligns with the goals of assistive augmentation [12] where it enhances cognitive capabilities in naturalistic settings, blending immediacy and social integration into an intuitive system. Our work builds on the broader vision of using wearable technologies to amplify human abilities, with a specific focus on tackling misinformation. In this paper, we describe the design of Factually, its implementation using existing fact-checking mechanisms, and its potential to transform how individuals engage with information. Through initial qualitative demonstrations, we highlight Factually’s promise as an effective tool for fostering truth-centered