corrects their statement, encouraging a more accurate understanding of history. This scenario highlights how Factually encourages users to question the validity of their claims and practice mindfulness in speech. By promoting introspection and self-correction, Factually fosters a truth-centered identity and critical thinking. 3.4 Initial User Reactions We presented Factually to 10 potential users to get their initial qualitative feedback. Overall, participants found Factually intuitive and useful, particularly appreciating its non-intrusive nature. They expressed interest in using such a system in their daily lives, citing its potential to enhance critical thinking and mindfulness. However, they also suggested improvements in the vibrotactile feedback’s specificity and the ability to customize the system’s sensitivity to different topics. 4 LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK The current prototype of Factually employs general-purpose large language models and web-based resources, which may not always produce domain-specific or highly accurate results. Future implementations would incorporate specialized fact-checking models trained on misinformation datasets to enhance reliability. Factually relies on cloud-based fact-checking using large language models and web resources, but network latency can delay real-time feedback. Future versions could address this by incorporating edge computing or on-device inference for faster response times. While Factually ’s discreet vibrotactile feedback minimizes social disruptions, broader and long-term usability studies are needed to assess its practicality in diverse social contexts to guage its social acceptibility as well as its impact on 6Chitralekha Gupta, Hanjun Wu, Praveen Sasikumar, Shreyas Sridhar, Priambudi Bagaskara, and Suranga Nanayakkara user’s cognitive load. Investigating the ethical implications of real-time fact-checking systems, such as privacy concerns and the potential for misuse, will be vital to ensure responsible deployment. REFERENCES [1] Hartmut Blank, Anu Panday, Ross Edwards, Ewa Skopicz-Radkiewicz, Violet Gibson, and Vasudevi Reddy. 2022. Double misinformation: Effects on eyewitness remembering. Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition 11, 1 (2022), 97. [2] Hartmut Blank, Eva Walther, and Simon D Isemann. 2016. The past is a social construction: susceptibility to social inf luence in (mis) remembering. In False and distorted memories. Psychology Press, 65–81. [3] Valdemar Danry, Pat Pataranutaporn, Yaoli Mao, and Pattie Maes. 2020. Wearable Reasoner: towards enhanced human rationality through a wearable device with an explainable AI assistant. In Proceedings of the Augmented Humans International Conference. 1–12. [4] Michela Del Vicario, Alessandro Bessi, Fabiana Zollo, Fabio Petroni, Antonio Scala, Guido Caldarelli, H Eugene Stanley, and Walter Quattrociocchi. 2016. The spreading of misinformation online. Proceedings of the national academy of Sciences 113, 3 (2016), 554–559. [5] Ullrich KH Ecker, Stephan Lewandowsky, and David TW Tang. 2010. Explicit warnings reduce but do not eliminate the continued influence of misinformation. Memory & cognition 38 (2010), 1087–1100. [6] Hollyn M Johnson and Colleen M Seifert. 1994. Sources of the continued influence effect: When misinformation in memory affects later inferences. Journal of experimental psychology: Learning, memory, and cognition 20, 6 (1994), 1420. [7] Anastasia Kozyreva, Stephan Lewandowsky, and Ralph Hertwig. 2020. Citizens versus the internet: Confronting digital challenges with cognitive tools. Psychological Science in the Public Interest 21, 3 (2020), 103–156. [8] Anastasia Kozyreva, Philipp Lorenz-Spreen,