use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. © 2025 Association for Computing Machinery. Manuscript submitted to ACM Manuscript submitted to ACM 1 2 Mei et al. ﬁndings [1, 3, 12, 15, 16]. Based on this line of work, this position paper proposes a distinction between performed critical thinking and demonstrated critical thinking. In the context of human-AI interaction, we deﬁne performed critical thinking as cognitive process undertaken by humans independent of AI assistance. In contrast, demonstrated critical thinking refers to either the process or product of critical thinking that occurs through the assistance of or collaboration with generative AI systems. These distinctions are important since the choice of interpretation could lead to diﬀerent implications for i) research that examines the impact of generative AI on critical thinking and ii) divergent design objectives for AI systems to augment human critical thinking. We identify that current evaluation on the impact of GenAI on critical thinking skills often focuses on demonstrated rather than performed critical thinking and provide considerations for future research designs. Drawing insight from the intellect augmentation framework conceptualized by Douglas Engelbart [6], we argue that while current AI systems and interaction paradigms may enhance the demonstrated critical thinking, they do not necessarily improve the performed critical thinking. We also discuss design considerations to accomplish the latter. 2 DEFINITION AND EVALUATION OF CRITICAL THINKING Critical thinking has been conceptualized through various frameworks over decades of research in education and psy- chology [2, 7, 18]. Its deﬁnition varies from a general deﬁnition to a procedural process. Ennis [7] describes critical thinking as the correct assessing of statements. Scriven and Paul [18] deﬁne it as a “a disciplined process that actively and skillfully conceptualize, apply, analyze, synthesize, and evaluate information gathered from or generated by obser- vation, experience, reﬂection, reasoning or communication, to guide one’s belief and action”. Similarly focusing on the process, Bloom et al. [2] identiﬁes six cognitive activities that occur during critical thinking: knowledge, comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. The deﬁnitions by Ennis [7] and Scriven and Paul [18] align with what we term performed critical thinking—independent cognitive processes without external assistance. Yet all components within the deﬁnition by Bloom et al. [2] can be either performed independently or demonstrated through human-AI collaboration. Researchers in psychology and education have adopted various quantitative and qualitative approaches to evaluate critical thinking [4, 5]. Via a quantitative approach, researchers develop standardized tests or instruments [8–10, 22]. In qualitative assessment, researchers such as open-ended questions and augmentative writing, as well as online discus- sion [20, 24]. Across these tools, some tend to measure critical