VL applications largely unexplored. As black-box LVLMs become more prevalent, addressing this gap is essential for their reliable adoption in appli- cations that cannot tolerate hallucinations. This paper introduces the plug-and-play Uni- RAG technique, designed to enhance the fidelity of model outputs. UniRAG integrates RA with LVLMs to guide the generation process using rele- vant in-context information. By incorporating inter- leaved image-text pairs as few-shot examples dur- ing inference, UniRAG serves as a model-agnostic approach that effectively teaches out-of-the-box LVLMs about various task intents and uncommon entities. Our evaluation in this work primarily fo- cuses on image captioning (image-to-text) and im- age generation (text-to-image) tasks. UniRAG adopts a two-stage retrieval and genera- tion approach. For retrieval we use the UniIR (Wei et al., 2023) retriever, which is trained with di- arXiv:2405.10311v3 [cs.IR] 9 Mar 2025 Query Image Query Caption Output Image An old warplane is on display in the field. Output Caption A Display of bananas in the market. UniRAG VL Database (M-BEIR) Output LVLM Input + VL Retriever (UniIR) Query Image-text Pairs RAG Few-Shot Prompt A view of a few coconuts in a basket. An old plane sitting on the grass beside the runway. Figure 1: An Overview of the UniRAG technique with image captioning (blue) and image generation (green) tasks. UniRAG retrieves relevant image-text pairs and adds them as few-shot examples to the LVLM’s input prompt. verse VL datasets to retrieve heterogeneous out- puts in both text and image modalities. We mainly adopt UniIR’s CLIP Score Fusion and BLIP Fea- ture Fusion models which are instruction-tuned using CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) and BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2022), respectively. In the generation stage, we use a variety of off-the-shelf proprietary and open-source LVLM models. In particular, we em- ploy LLaVA, GPT-4o and Gemini-Pro for image captioning and LaVIT and Emu2 for image gen- eration. We guide these LVLMs using zero-shot and few-shot prompting techniques to demonstrate their enhanced generation capabilities due to access to relevant examples during inference. For our evaluations, we mainly utilize the MSCOCO (Chen et al., 2015) dataset from the M-BEIR (Wei et al., 2023) benchmark. We as- sess caption and image generation using M-BEIR’s image-to-text and text-to-image tasks, respectively. By combining RA with LVLMs, we achieve signif- icant improvements over baseline effectiveness: an average increase of about 9 percentage points in SPICE (Anderson et al., 2016) for image caption- ing and a reduction of 25 units in Fréchet Inception Distance (FID) (Heusel et al., 2017) for image gen- eration. Additional evaluations using M-BEIR’s Fashion200k dataset demonstrate that UniRAG is even more effective in domain-specific applications. To summarize, our main contributions in this paper are as follows: • Introducing the plug-and-play UniRAG tech- nique, which combines VL retrievers with LVLMs using in-context RAG. • Assessing the effectiveness of UniRAG in im- age captioning and generation tasks using five LVLMs, including both open-source and propri- etary models. • Evaluating UniRAG on the Fashion200k dataset to showcase its effectiveness in domain-specific applications. 2 Related Work Retrieval Augmentation