domains. These models have demonstrated their effectiveness in improving the efficiency and accuracy of document creation, as well as aiding in information extraction from large document collections. Recent research predominantly centers around leveraging LLMs to generate content within predefined thematic frameworks. This includes tasks like generating lecture abstracts, producing semi-structured documents [1], lecture notes [2], and PPT [3] generation. These tasks have fewer requirements for content and structure, making them well-suited for employing straightforward prompt-based approaches. Furthermore, there are document generation tasks that demand a high level of expertise and professionalism, such as the creation of legal documents. Lin et al. have proposed a prompt writing design leveraging large models and developed methods to evaluate contract terms specifically for legal document generation [4]. In order to protect information privacy, Lam et al. used a large number arXiv:2410.09077v1 [cs.CL] 4 Oct 2024 of unlabeled legal documents without Chinese word segmentation to fine-tune a LLM, in order to generate legal document drafts with local LLM [5]. Currently, it is common practice to optimize the prompt engineering and fine-tuning for document generation based on a certain framework structure and specific information. LLMs have demonstrated significant potential in document generation, leveraging their semantic understanding to enhance efficiency and accuracy in various document generation tasks. However, further research and exploration are still needed to address some challenging issues, such as structured content generation, compliance, and professional requirements. Retrieval-augmented generation has gained attention in text generation tasks. Previous studies primarily use the training corpus or external datasets as retrieval sources, which can include external datasets [6] or unsupervised data [7], enhance the model’s knowledge and adaptability. Retrieval metrics in retrieval-augmented generation include sparse-vector retrieval (using methods like TF-IDF and BM25), dense-vector retrieval (leveraging pretrained language models for encoding text), and task-specific retrieval (learning a customized retrieval metric optimized for specific objectives). These metrics enhance the relevance and quality of retrieved examples to improve the final generation output. Retrieval metrics play a vital role in selecting relevant examples. These metrics can be classified into sparse-vector retrieval, which involves methods like TF-IDF and BM25 [8], enabling efficient keyword matching using inverted indexes. On the other hand, dense-vector retrieval leverages pre-trained language models, such as those based on BERT, to encode text into low-dimensional dense vectors [9]. Retrieval-augmented text generation has emerged as a promising approach in computational linguistics. Its effectiveness and success rely on three key components: retrieval source, retrieval metric, and integration methods. III. METHODS In our framework, the generation of tender documents typically involves a three-step process: • First, when provided with a new procurement requirement like user basic information or procurement content, utilize the retrieval-augmentation module to find the most similar procurement document. • Second, use a memory network to confirm the coherence among the retrieved document, policies, and new information, and subsequently make modifications to the document based on this verification. • Third, leverage the procurement project knowledge base to further disassemble and modify the procurement content of procurement documents based on user procurement