Given their success in extracting valuable knowledge, classiﬁers and object detectors have also been applied to multi-modal tasks such as image or video captioning or video understanding. For example, Herdade et al. [11] make use of Faster R-CNN to encode the visual information of an image and transform objects into words. As a further step, the authors introduce the Object Relation Transformer, an encoder- decoder architecture designed speciﬁcally for image cap- tioning, that incorporates information about the spatial re- lationships between input detected objects through geomet- ric attention. Indeed, even though Transformers have been originally proposed for NLP tasks, they have also been suc- cessfully applied, alone or in conjunction with a convolu- tional part, in a wide variety of vision tasks such as classiﬁ- cation [6], object detection [1], object tracking [27], and others. 2.3. Joint video-text embedding Inspired by the BERT model’s success for NLP tasks, numerous multimodal vision-language models have been proposed. Those kinds of methods, that try to learn a joint visual-textual embedding, can be divided into three cate- gories (depicted in Figure 2): (i) single-stream shared en- coder, (ii) separated-streams encoders with joint encoder; (iii) separated-streams encoders with distance loss. Video-NL Encoder Video & NL (a) Video Encoder NL Encoder Cross-Modal Encoder Video NL (b) Loss function Video Encoder NL Encoder Video NL (c) Figure 2: Joint video-text embedding categories: (a) single- stream shared encoder; (b) separated-streams encoders with joint encoder; (c) separated-streams encoders with distance loss VideoBERT [26] and ActBERT [34] belong to the ﬁrst category: they employ a single Transformer based encoder to learn joint embedding for video-text pairs, combining a sequence of “visual words”, and a sequence of spoken words. To create “visual words”, Sun et al. [26] sub- sample the frames and apply a pre-trained video ConvNet, i.e. S3D [32]. Starting from the BERTLARGE model ini- tialized with the pre-training, they added support for video tokens by appending 20,736 entries to the word embedding lookup table for each “visual words”. The novelty intro- duced by Zhu and Yang in ActBERT [34] is the additional incorporation of global actions. They introduce a TaNgled Transformer block to encode features from three sources, i.e., actions embeddings, local regional objects obtained with Faster R-CNN network [20], and linguistic tokens ob- tained using Word-Piece [31]. In the second category, three encoders are employed: one for the NL, one for the video, and a third one which re- ceives the output of the previous two and learns a cross- modal embedding. The idea was introduced by Sun et al. with “Contrastive Bidirectional Transformer” (CBT) [25]; other meaningful examples are HERO [13], UniVL [15] and CLIPBERT [12]. HERO learns contextualized embeddings between the corresponding tokens and their associated vi- sual frames. Instead, the peculiarity of CLIPBERT is that it randomly samples few short clips from the full-length videos at each training step. The latter category is the only one without a shared encoder: there are still two separate encoders for video and NL, and the resulting embeddings are