be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. # Question: Is it true that Belgrade Race is an annual men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia through history, past winners includes Brahim Lahlafi (1st edition), Philip Mosima (3rd) and Josphat Menjo (6th)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What is the Belgrade Race? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The Belgrade Race Through History is an annual men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia. Follow up: Has Brahim Lahlafi won Belgrade Race? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Yes, Brahim Lahlafi was the winner in 1996. Follow up: Has Philip Mosima won Belgrade Race? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Yes, Philip Mosima beat Marathon world record and won in 1998 Follow up: Has Josphat Menjo won Belgrade Race? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Yes, Josphat Menjo broke the meet record and won the competition. So the final answer is: Yes # Question: Is it true that Based on the same platform as the Chevrolet Sail, the Baojun 310 was launched on 2017 Beijing Auto Show where the price ranges from 36.800 yuan to 60.800 yuan? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: When and where was the Baojun 310 launched? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The Baojun 310 was launched on 2016 Beijing Auto Show, not 2017 Beijing Auto Show. So the final answer is: No # Question: Is it true that Florida International University pedestrian bridge collapse was funded with a $19.4 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grant from the United States Department of Transportation in 2013, along with state agencies and the bridge cost $14.2 million to construct? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: How was Florida International University pedestrian bridge collapse funded? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Florida International University pedestrian bridge was a $14.2 million project funded with a $19.4 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the United States Department of Transportation in 2013, along with state agencies, which is consistent with facts in the question. Follow up: How much did it cost to construct Florida International University pedestrian bridge? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The bridge cost $9 million to construct, not $14.2 million. So the final answer is: No Table 26: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on Feverous. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. The final answer should always be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. # {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Belgrade Race is an annual men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia through history, past winners includes Brahim Lahlafi (1st edition), Philip Mosima (3rd) and Josphat Menjo (6th)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What is the Belgrade Race? Intermediate answer: The