of information from multiple sources. A larger, more capable LLM is se- lected for generation. • REASONING: Complex queries that demand multi-hop reasoning, comparison, or deep analysis. A state-of-the-art LLM with strong reasoning capabilities is allocated for the final answer. This initial routing mechanism serves a dual purpose: it acts as an efficiency-enhancing short- Algorithm 1 FAIR-RAG Inference (Prompts for agents are detailed in Appendix B.) Require: Set of Generator LLMs G = {Gsmall, Glarge, Greasoning}, Hybrid Retriever Hretriever, Document Corpus C = {d1, . . . , dN}, Set of LLM Agents A = {Arouter, Adecompose, Afilter, Asuff, Arefine} 1: Input: User query x 2: Output: Final, evidence-grounded answer yfinal 3: query_type, Gselected ←Arouter.classify(x) ▷Route 4: if query_type == OBVIOUS then 5: yfinal ←Gselected.generate(x) ▷Generate directly from parametric knowledge 6: return yfinal 7: end if 8: Eagg ←∅ // Aggregated evidence 9: Qprevious ←{x} 10: for i ←1 to 3 do // Max 3 iterations 11: if i == 1 then 12: Qsub ←Adecompose.generate(x) ▷Decompose initial query 13: else 14: Qsub ←Arefine.generate(x, Qprevious, analysis_summary) ▷Refine query to fill gaps 15: end if 16: Qprevious ←Qprevious ∪Qsub 17: Dcandidate ←Hretriever.retrieve_and_rerank(Qsub, C) ▷Retrieve 18: Efiltered ←Afilter.filter(Dcandidate, x) ▷Filter irrelevant evidence 19: Eagg ←Eagg ∪Efiltered 20: analysis_summary, is_sufficient ←Asuff.check(Eagg, x) ▷Assess sufficiency with SEA 21: if is_sufficient == Yes then 22: break // Exit loop if evidence is sufficient 23: end if 24: end for 25: yfinal ←Gselected.generate(x, Eagg, faith_constraints) ▷Generate answer 26: return yfinal cut for simple queries and implements our Adap- tive Model Selection strategy by pre-allocating the most cost-effective generator model for the final step. While this module is a key feature for prac- tical deployment, it was systematically controlled during our benchmark evaluations to ensure a fair comparison, as detailed in Section 4.4. 3.3 The Iterative Retrieval and Refinement Cycle This cycle is the core of FAIR-RAG’s ability to handle complex information needs. It is designed to run for a maximum of three iterations to ensure a balance between comprehensiveness and latency. Each iteration consists of the following steps: 3.3.1 Adaptive Query Generation The initial user query, if deemed complex, is first subjected to semantic decomposition. An LLM agent breaks down the multifaceted query into a set of up to four distinct, keyword-rich, and seman- tically independent sub-queries. For example, the query “What were Alan Turing’s main contribu- tions to computer science and his role in World War II?” is decomposed into targeted sub-queries like “Alan Turing’s contributions to theoretical computer science” and “Alan Turing’s role in breaking the Enigma code.” This ensures that the retrieval process covers all conceptual facets of the original question. 3.3.2 Hybrid Retrieval and Reranking For each sub-query, we employ a hybrid retrieval strategy to maximize recall. We perform both dense vector search (capturing semantic simi- larity) (Karpukhin et al., 2020) and traditional keyword-based sparse search (capturing exact matches) (Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009). The results from both methods are aggregated, and the documents are re-ranked using the Recipro- cal Rank Fusion (RRF) algorithm