categorical distribution in Eq. (29) and combining Eq. (28), we finally have: P [g(Zr) /∈g(Zq)] ≤ C X c=1 r(c) cal  1 −r(c) ext  NextP  sθ(x, x+) < sθ(x, x−) Nextr(c) ext (34) ≤ C X c=1 r(c) cal 1 −r(c) ext + p 2 ln (1/δext) Next ! NextV 0.5Next  r(c) ext −√ 2 ln (1/δext)/Next  rag . (35) Since we assume that the retrieval model retrieves samples identically from the external knowledge base, the number of retrieved positive examples Npos follows a Binomial distribution with Nrag trials and failure rate in Eq. (35). Therefore, we can lower bound the expectation of Npos as the following: E [Npos] ≥Nrag (1 −δext) 1 − C X c=1 r(c) cal 1 −r(c) ext + p 2 ln (1/δext) Next ! NextV 0.5Next  r(c) ext −√ 2 ln (1/δext)/Next  rag ! , (36) which holds for any δext > 0. Therefore, letting δext = 0.1, we can finally conclude that: E [Npos] ≥9 10Nrag 1 − C X c=1 r(c) cal  Next −r(c) ext Next + √ 2 ln 10  V 0.5  r(c) ext Next− √ 2 ln 10  rag ! . (37) F.4. Proof and detailed remark of Thm. 1 Remarks. In Thm. 1, we theoretically show that the conformal generation risk with RAG ˆαrag is smaller than the risk without RAG ˆα with a high probability. (R1) We can observe that the probability monotonically increases in the sample size of the calibration set Ncal, the size of retrieved examples Nrag, and the number of instances in the external knowledge base Next. In particular, a large Ncal reduces the finite-sample error during the calibration and induces a better approximation of the true generation risk with the empirical risk on the calibration set. A large Nrag and Next brings in related background information from a more knowledge-intensive knowledge base, which enhances the quality of generations augmented by retrieval. (R2) Furthermore, the probability P [ˆαrag < ˆα] increases with the increase in transformer’s quality, which is quantified by the attention scores for a positive pair (i.e., d+ ) and the prediction capability (without RAG) (i.e., R 1 −1 ΦM(v)dv −1 ). Since 1 −ΦM(0) represents the population risk without RAG, the difference of the prediction margin CDF ΦM(·) (monotonically increasing) directly characterizes the benefit of generation quality with RAG. The quality improvement provided by RAG also exponentially induces a larger probability of reducing the conformal generation risk of a single LLM. The transformer 21 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models uncertainty pt also decreases exponentially with a large number of retrieved examples, indicating that more examples retrieved by a good retrieval model benefit a lower conformal generation risk. (R3) The retrieval model uncertainty pr decreases with a low-variance retrieval model (small Vrag), which can generalize well to test distribution. (R4) We focus on the conformal generation risk formulated in Prop. 1, but we can easily adapt the results to any