We hope that our findings will inspire researchers and practitioners to develop ef- ficient and effective strategies in their customized code-generation tasks with LLMs. 7 Limitations Despite the effectiveness of EVOR in RACG, one limitation is that it requires multiple rounds of in- teractions among retrievers, LLMs, and executors to output the code answer. This iterative process can lead to longer latency and increased energy consumption, which are critical concerns in real- time applications and energy-constrained environ- ments. We hope that future work will design more efficient architectures or approaches to integrate LLMs seamlessly while maintaining or improving performance in RACG. Such advancements could significantly enhance the practicality and scalabil- ity of LLMs in realistic scenarios. 8 Potential Risk The use of retrieval-augmented code generation with large language models introduces several po- tential risks, primarily centered around the quality and relevance of the retrieved code snippets. There is a risk of biased or incorrect information being re- trieved, which could propagate errors or introduce vulnerabilities into generated code. Additionally, there are concerns about privacy and security if sensitive code snippets are inadvertently included in the retrieval process. Addressing these risks re- quires careful curation of retrieval sources, robust validation mechanisms, and continuous monitoring to ensure the integrity and safety of the generated code. References Abhijit Anand, Vinay Setty, Avishek Anand, et al. 2023. Context aware query rewriting for text rankers using llm. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.16753. Akari Asai, Sewon Min, Zexuan Zhong, and Danqi Chen. 2023. Acl 2023 tutorial: Retrieval-based lan- guage models and applications. ACL 2023. Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. 2021. Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732. Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Millican, George van den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, Diego de Las Casas, Aurelia Guy, Jacob Menick, Roman Ring, Tom Hennigan, Saffron Huang, Loren Maggiore, Chris Jones, Albin Cassirer, Andy Brock, Michela Paganini, Geoffrey Irving, Oriol Vinyals, Simon Osindero, Karen Si- monyan, Jack W. Rae, Erich Elsen, and Laurent Sifre. 2022. Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2022, 17-23 July 2022, Bal- timore, Maryland, USA, volume 162 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 2206–2240. PMLR. Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901. Chi-Min Chan, Chunpu Xu, Ruibin Yuan, Hongyin Luo, Wei Xue, Yike Guo, and Jie Fu. 2024. Rq-rag: Learn- ing to refine queries for retrieval augmented genera- tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00610. Bei Chen, Fengji Zhang, Anh Nguyen, Daoguang Zan, Zeqi Lin, Jian-Guang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. 2022. Codet: Code generation with generated tests. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.10397. Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka- plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,