Large Language Models and Multimodal Retrieval for Visual Word Sense Disambiguation Anastasia Kritharoula, Maria Lymperaiou and Giorgos Stamou Artificial Intelligence and Learning Systems Laboratory School of Electrical and Computer Engineering National Technical University of Athens anaskrith@gmail.com, marialymp@islab.ntua.gr, gstam@cs.ntua.gr Abstract Visual Word Sense Disambiguation (VWSD) is a novel challenging task with the goal of retriev- ing an image among a set of candidates, which better represents the meaning of an ambigu- ous word within a given context. In this paper, we make a substantial step towards unveiling this interesting task by applying a varying set of approaches. Since VWSD is primarily a text-image retrieval task, we explore the lat- est transformer-based methods for multimodal retrieval. Additionally, we utilize Large Lan- guage Models (LLMs) as knowledge bases to enhance the given phrases and resolve ambigu- ity related to the target word. We also study VWSD as a unimodal problem by converting to text-to-text and image-to-image retrieval, as well as question-answering (QA), to fully ex- plore the capabilities of relevant models. To tap into the implicit knowledge of LLMs, we exper- iment with Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting to guide explainable answer generation. On top of all, we train a learn to rank (LTR) model in order to combine our different modules, achiev- ing competitive ranking results. Extensive ex- periments on VWSD demonstrate valuable in- sights to effectively drive future directions. Visual word sense disambiguation (VWSD) is a recently introduced challenging task where an ambiguous target word within a given context has to retrieve the proper image among competitive candidates (Raganato et al., 2023). For example, the phrase andromeda tree contains the ambiguous target word andromeda accompanied by the context tree which resolves this ambiguity. Out of the 10 candidates presented in Fig. 1, a VWSD framework attempts to retrieve the ground truth image, denoted with colored border. Even though VWSD is essentially a text-image retrieval task, there are some fundamental differ- ences. First of all, the context given for an ambigu- ous word is minimal, most often limited to a single word, upon which a retrieval module should rely Figure 1: An example of the VWSD task. to retrieve the proper candidate. Additionally, the candidate images themselves pose significant chal- lenges; for example, by observing the candidates of Fig. 1, which are related to several meanings of the ambiguous word andromeda (can be either a constellation, fish species, tree, reptile etc), a successful retrieval system should be fine-grained enough and highly sensitive to the contextualiza- tion of the ambiguous target word. In that case, the context word tree should be prominent enough -from the perspective of the retrieval module- to resolve ambiguity. At the same time, this retrieval module should not excessively rely on the tree con- text: images containing flowers and green grass induce some expected visual bias in the retrieval process, thus the image having the highest probabil- ity of containing a tree may be selected, ignoring the ambiguous andromeda attribute. Of course, there is also the possible scenario that a retrieval