Overall performance on retrieval-augmented generation on 11 datasets across 7 tasks in zero-shot setting. Multi-Hop Question Answering Multi-hop QA measures the ability of LLMs to perform combined reasoning on multiple knowledge. We use Hot- potQA (Yang et al., 2018) and Musique (Trivedi et al., 2022b) for this task. We use the same evalua- tion metric as Open-domain QA. Code Generation Code generation aims to gener- ate the code for the given natural language. We use Java and Python in CodeXGLUE (Iyer et al., 2018) for this task. We use CodeBLEU (Ren et al., 2020) as the evaluation metric. 4.2 Experimental Settings LLMs in our paper include LLaMA-2-7B, 13B and their chat version (Touvron et al., 2023b). We use LoRA to fine-tune these pre-trained LLMs on four A100 GPUs with the learning rate of 1e-5, per-gpu batch size of 4 (for 7B) and 2 (for 13B) for 5K steps. As for the training data, we intercept 15 consecutive sentences for each example. As for the retrieval model and retrieval database, for Open-domain QA, Soft Filling and Lan- guage Modeling, we use ColBERTv2 (Santhanam et al., 2022), a late-interaction model with ex- cellent generalization ability as the retriever, and use Wikipedia consisting of 21,015,324 pas- sages (Karpukhin et al., 2020) as retrieval database. For Code Generation, we SCODE-R (Parvez et al., 2021) as code retriever and use deduplicated source codes in CodeSearchNET (Husain et al., 2019) as retrievel database. For all the above tasks, we give Top-5 retrieved passages to each example. For LFQA, Dialog, and Multi-Hop QA, we use the list of contextual passages provided in the datasets as the retrieved list (distractor setting). In each exper- iment, all baselines and our method share the same retrieved documents. 4.3 Experimental Results Main Results (Zero-Shot Setting) Experimen- tal results in Table 1 show the improvement (the average is 9.39%) of our method on the utilization of retrieved knowledge from four aspects. (1) Short and Direct Knowledge. Our method can significantly improve the RAG performance of LLaMA on ODQA and Slot-Filling tasks. The answer in ODQA and Slot-Filling is short and di- rect, it can directly reflect the ability of LLMs to utilize the knowledge in retrieved texts. (2) Reasoning on Multiple Knowledge. Our INFO- RAG has advantages in cross-passage reasoning on multiple knowledge of retrieval lists. Questions in both HotpotQA and Musique are complex and need multiple knowledge from different passages. These questions not only require LLMs to extract correct knowledge from the retrieved passage list but also to combine the knowledge of different passages in the list for reasoning to give the final answer. (3) Long and Complex Knowledge. Our INFO- RAG can improve the RAG performance of LLaMA on LFQA, Dialogue and Language Model- ing. These tasks require LLaMA to output long and complex texts grounded with intensive knowledge. (4) Code Knowledge. Our INFO-RAG can also improve the RAG performance of LLaMA on Code Generation. This further demonstrates the cross- task generality of INFO-RAG. Our method is only trained on