of the clean examples in section 3.1, then report the results of adversarial examples in section 3.2. We only report the ac- curacy in this section, the BLEU scores of each experiment can be found in appendix C. In section 3.3, we display the average perfor- mance of X-to-English language pairs and English- to-X language pairs. Computational resources For the GPT and In- structGPT models, we spent about 200 US dol- lars on the OpenAI API. The experiments with T5 and FLAN-T5 models except the largest vari- ants were done on the HPE SGI 8600 system with NVIDIA GV100 GPU. The experiments on the Llama2, Llama2-chat and the largest variants of T5 and FLAN-T5 were performed on a cluster of NVIDIA A100 40GB/80GB GPUs (note that a sin- gle node with 4 A100 40GB GPUs is sufficient to run all experiments). 3.1 Non-adversarial Experiments T5 and FLAN-T5 According to figure 1, all lan- guage pairs and models show positive scaling ex- cept the English-German language pair with the T5 model, where we found U-shape scaling. OpenAI models The results on the OpenAI mod- els are shown in figure 2. OpenAI models show consistent positive scaling on sentences without adversarial prompt injections, as the accuracy score and BLEU scores (appendix C) almost monotonically increase with the model sizes. In the En→Fr direction the performance for GPT-3 goes down twice from a model size of 350M to 1.3B, then from 6.7B to 175B. However, the drop in performance is insignificant compared to the rise in performance from 1.3B to 175B. This drop in performance is inconsistent, thus, we will not consider this as an instance of inverse scaling. Llama2 and Llama2-chat We report the results on both Llama2 and Llama2-chat models. For each model we also experimented on different quantiza- tion variants of the model4. Figure 3 and 4 contain the results of Llama2 and Llama2-chat respectively. Quite obvious inverse scaling is found when the Llama2 model is fed with the zero-shot prompt. Another interesting pattern is that we observe an abrupt increase in performance and then a steady decrease when the quantization is 4-bit. The poten- tial explanation is that the low quantization hurts the overall performance of the model. The smallest Llama2 model with the 4-bit quantization doesn’t seem to be able to perform translation tasks in the the zero-shot regime, as the its BLEU score is un- der 10. It is also worth pointing out that although the zero-shot accuracy of English-to-X translation direction is rather high (except with 4-bit quanti- zation), the BLEU score is consistently under 10. Manual inspection reveals that the model is repeat- ing the original question in English, resulting in a high accuracy but low BLEU scores. Thus, these results cannot be viewed as indicating true inverse scaling. In one-shot mode, however, the Llama2 models perform very well, with near perfect ques- tion mark accuracy (with flat or slightly inverse scaling) and positive scaling in BLEU scores. The Llama2-chat models are able to translate