deemed suitable for capturing information. Throughout the process, we recorded their interactions via video, capturing what types of information they chose to record, the methods they employed for documentation, and their cognitive processes in interpreting the content. 3.1.1 Exhibition Setting. The study was conducted in the visitor center of our institution, an information-rich exhibition space designed to showcase the university’s research, academic achievements, and institutional history. The exhibition featured a diverse range of interaction channels, including virtual reality (VR), gesture-based interfaces, desktop- based interactions, museum-like installations, video and audio content, and immersive experiences. This multi-modal environment provided a complex, information-intensive setting where participants engaged with dense academic material through various sensory and interactive modalities. Participants were required to navigate, filter, and synthesize information across multiple formats, often switching between passive consumption (e.g., reading and watching videos) and active interaction (e.g., VR exploration and gesture-based engagement). Additionally, the setting introduced contextual challenges such as time constraints, selective attention demands, and varying levels of engagement across different media. By analyzing participants’ behaviors in this environment, we aimed to uncover how individuals process and retain complex academic content and how AI-driven cognitive augmentation can enhance structured reasoning and information synthesis. Manuscript submitted to ACM 4 Zhu et al. Fig. 1. Overview of the exhibition setup, which includes different modalities of information presentation and interaction. The exhibition integrates various digital and physical interfaces, including large-scale digital displays for visual information (a), textual and interactive tabletop interfaces for content exploration (c, f, g), object-based museum-like exhibits (d), and sensor-based gesture interaction (e). Additionally, there are also immersive simulations (h), which provides an overview of the campus resources and map. The information is mainly composed of academic content (b, c, d, e, f, g) and school information (a, h) 3.1.2 Participants. We recruited three participants, all of whom were MPhil or PhD students from the university. Each participant had at least five years of experience in design or development, making them well-versed in knowledge- intensive tasks and interactive systems. Their background ensured they were familiar with information structuring, digital interaction, and knowledge processing, making their insights valuable for understanding cognitive augmentation needs. 3.1.3 Procedure. Before beginning the study, participants were informed that they would need to write a report summarizing key insights from their exhibition visit. This task was designed to ensure they had a concrete goal while navigating the space, encouraging natural engagement with the information. The study followed a think-aloud protocol, where participants freely explored the exhibition while verbalizing their thoughts, strategies, and challenges in processing information. They were allowed to interact with various media, including text, videos, VR, and gesture-based interfaces, and to record notes in any format they preferred. Their interactions were observed and recorded for post-analysis. After the exhibition walkthrough, a semi-structured interview was conducted to capture reflections on their experience, challenges in synthesizing information, and expectations for AI-driven cognitive support. Manuscript submitted to ACM Intelligent Interaction Strategies for Context-Aware Cognitive Augmentation 5 This study was conducted in compliance with institutional