augmented strategies in combination with LLMs that are only available through APIs. While the usefulness of retrieval-augmented strategies is clear, their implementation requires a significant amount of tuning, as the overall per- formance will be affected by the retrieval model, the considered corpus, the LM, or the prompt for- mulation, among others. Automated evaluation of retrieval-augmented systems is thus paramount. In practice, RAG systems are often evaluated in terms of the language modelling task itself, i.e. by mea- suring perplexity on some reference corpus. How- ever, such evaluations are not always predictive of downstream performance (Wang et al., 2023c). Moreover, this evaluation strategy relies on the LM probabilities, which are not accessible for some closed models (e.g. ChatGPT and GPT-4). Ques- tion answering is another common evaluation task, but usually only datasets with short extractive an- swers are considered, which may not be represen- tative of how the system will be used. To address these issues, in this paper we present Ragas1, a framework for the automated assessment 1Ragas is available at https://github.com/ explodinggradients/ragas. arXiv:2309.15217v2 [cs.CL] 28 Apr 2025 of retrieval augmented generation systems. We fo- cus on settings where reference answers may not be available, and where we want to estimate different proxies for correctness, in addition to the useful- ness of the retrieved passages. The Ragas frame- work provides an integration with both llama-index and Langchain, the most widely used frameworks for building RAG solutions, thus enabling devel- opers to easily integrate Ragas into their standard workflow. 2 Related Work Estimating faithfulness using LLMs The prob- lem of detecting hallucinations in LLM generated responses has been extensively studied (Ji et al., 2023). Several authors have suggested the idea of predicting factuality using a few-shot prompt- ing strategy (Zhang et al., 2023). Recent analy- ses, however, suggest that existing models struggle with detecting hallucination when using standard prompting strategies (Li et al., 2023; Azaria and Mitchell, 2023). Other approaches rely on linking the generated responses to facts from an external knowledge base (Min et al., 2023), but this is not always possible. Yet another strategy is to inspect the probabili- ties assigned to individual tokens, where we would expect the model to be less confident in halluci- nated answers than in factual ones. For instance, BARTScore (Yuan et al., 2021) estimates factuality by looking at the conditional probability of the gen- erated text given the input. Kadavath et al. (2022) use a variation of this idea. Starting from the ob- servation that LLMs provide well-calibrated proba- bilities when answering multiple-choice questions, they essentially convert the problem of validating model generated answers into a multiple-choice question which asks whether the answer is true or false. Rather than looking at the output probabil- ities, Azaria and Mitchell (2023) propose to train a supervised classifier on the weights from one of the hidden layers of the LLM, to predict whether a given statement is true or not. While the approach performs well, the need to access the hidden states of the model