adaptive LLM selection (SMALL, LARGE, REASON- ING roles) is intentionally disabled, with all roles defaulting to the single model. – Adaptive LLM Configuration: To demonstrate the full potential of our framework, we also report results for FAIR-RAG (Adaptive LLMs). This con- figuration employs a dynamic, multi- agent allocation strategy to optimize the trade-off between performance and cost: * For less complex internal tasks, such as query decomposition and Struc- tured Evidence Assessment (SEA), we utilize Llama-3-8B-Instruct. * For more cognitively demanding tasks, including evidence filter- ing, query refinement, and faith- ful answer generation, we leverage the more powerful Llama-3.1-70B- Instruct. (AI@Meta, 2024) * For tasks requiring deep reasoning, the system routes to a specialized DeepSeek-R1 model. (DeepSeek-AI, 2025) Unless otherwise specified, all other hyperpa- rameters adhere to the default settings of the un- derlying framework to maintain consistency across experiments. 5 Results This section presents a comprehensive evaluation of FAIR-RAG. We first report the main end-to-end results against a suite of strong baseline methods (Section 5.1). We then provide a deeper analysis of the framework’s internal mechanics, including a component-wise ablation study (Section 5.2.1) and an examination of the impact of iterative refinement on answer quality and cost (Section 5.2.2). 5.1 Main Results Table 2 presents the main performance comparison of FAIR-RAG and baseline methods across four di- verse question-answering benchmarks. Our frame- work demonstrates state-of-the-art performance, particularly on datasets that require complex, multi- step reasoning. We report four key metrics: Exact Match (EM) and F1-Score for lexical accuracy, a script-based Accuracy (ACC) which measures the presence of the ground-truth answer string in the generation, and our primary semantic metric, LLM-as-Judge Accuracy (ACCLLM). While EM, F1, and ACC are token-based, ACCLLM evaluates semantic equivalence, offering a more robust as- sessment of generative answers. To provide a fine-grained analysis of our frame- work’s iterative capabilities, we evaluate several configurations of FAIR-RAG in Table 2. The FAIR- RAG 1 to 4 variants correspond to the system’s performance with the maximum number of itera- tions capped at 1 to 4, respectively. To ensure a fair comparison against the baselines and to isolate the impact of the iterative refinement cycle itself, these variants utilize a single, consistent genera- tor model (Llama-3-8B-Instruct) across all stages. Conversely, the (Adaptive LLMs) variants repre- sent our full, optimized framework, employing the dynamic allocation of different LLM agents (e.g., small, large, reasoner) based on task complexity, as detailed in our methodology. Our best-performing model, FAIR-RAG 3, demonstrates leading performance within the paradigm of iterative and adaptive RAG. FAIR- RAG significantly outperforms strong representa- tive baselines from its architectural class across all multi-hop benchmarks. It is critical to note that all comparisons were conducted under a unified and controlled experimental setup, ensuring a fair and reproducible evaluation. Within this rig- orous framework, our results not only demonstrate a consistent advantage in our direct head-to-head comparisons but also set a new state-of-the-art performance benchmark for this class of itera- tive methods on these datasets. While we refer- ence previously published results