section, we examine the foundational princi- ples of this paradigm, analyze recent methodological advances, and explore promising directions for future research. 5.1 Structure-Enhanced Retrieval Taxonomy-based approaches. Classic retrieval methods [58, 84, 111, 113, 210, 215], while effective for general search, are not op- timized for theme-specific searches with explicit thematic focus. In contrast, taxonomy-guided retrieval utilizes the thematic struc- tures captured by the domain-specific topic taxonomy structures, which does not only align closely with the topics and subtopics in a taxonomy but also bypasses the requirement for large-scale labeled/annotated data. Along this track, ToTER [107] augments dense retrieval by leveraging corpus taxonomies through three strategies: search space filtering via topic overlap, relevance match- ing through topic distributions, and query enrichment using taxonomy- guided phrases, which allows improved domain-specific search without requiring labeled data. TaxoIndex [108] extracts key con- cepts from papers and organizes them as a semantic index guided by academic taxonomies at both topic and phrase levels, then trains an add-on module to identify these concepts in queries and documents to improve matching of underlying academic concepts in dense retrievers, achieving strong performance even with limited training data. In a similar vein, Lima et al. [237] demonstrates that retrieval A Survey on Retrieval And Structuring Augmented Generation with Large Language Models KDD ’25, August 3–7, 2025, Toronto, ON, Canada performance varies significantly across different query taxonomy classes, reinforcing the importance of structured categorization for optimizing retrieval. KG-based approaches. Knowledge graph, as another structured data, also demonstrated its effectiveness to improve the retrieval quality. For instance, KG-RAG [216] reduces LLM hallucinations [86] by constructing KGs from text and retrieving information through a Chain of Explorations algorithm, which sequentially traverses the graph using LLM reasoning to find relevant answers with higher precision than vector-based retrieval. Xu et al. [269] leverage KGs for retrieval by parsing issue tickets into tree structures with in- terconnected relationships, then using entity matching and graph traversal to locate relevant information instead of relying on text- chunk similarity search. HippoRAG [68] constructs a KG from passages using LLM-based triple extraction, then leverages person- alized PageRank [73] to explore graph neighborhoods around query entities to identify relevant passages with implicit connections. Sim- ilarly, GFM-RAG [153] follows this KG construction approach but innovates in the retrieval mechanism by employing a pre-trained query-dependent graph foundation model, enabling more sophisti- cated multi-hop relationship reasoning in a single step. Inspired by the recent advancements in retrieval strategies in- troduced in Section 3, we depict a promising RAS method in Fig- ure 1. The method combines taxonomy and KG to enable precise knowledge retrieval. The process follows an iterative cycle where a taxonomy-enhanced retriever first identifies both thematically and semantically relevant documents from the corpus. These doc- uments are structured into a subgraph, which updates a query- specific evolving KG. The KG augments the LLM’s capabilities by providing essential, structured information for answering the query. If additional information is needed, the LLM generates a focused subquery conditioned on the KG, initiating another retrieval