work, we conduct abductive reasoning with LLMs, which further advocates a multimodal reasoning paradigm to fine-tune smaller language models (LMs) for harmful meme detection. 3 Our Approach Problem Statement We define a harmful meme detection dataset as a set of memes where each meme M = {y, I, T } is a triplet represent- ing an image I that is associated with a text T , and a ground-truth harmfulness label y ∈ {harmful, harmless}. In this work, to investigate multimodal reasoning distilled from LLMs, we con- vert the harmful meme detection task into a natural language generation paradigm, where our model takes the text T and image I as the input and gen- erates a text sequence that contains the label y to clearly express whether the meme is harmful. Our core idea is to reason and evolve with the cognition-level rationale beyond the recognition- level perception (Davis and Marcus, 2015) by cap- turing the inter-relationship between visual and textual elements in memes. The overview of our framework is shown in Figure 2, which consists of abductive reasoning with LLMs (see Sec. 3.1) and two training stages, i.e., reasoning distillation (see Sec. 3.2) and harmfulness inference (see Sec. 3.3). Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm LM Decoder Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm LM Encoder Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm Trm LLM Given a text: my black boy friend, which is embedded in an image: a woman holds a baby gorilla, please provide a rationale for how the meme is reasoned as the harmfulness label: harmful Rationale: The text could be seen as objectifying or reducing a person to their race. While the image of a woman holding a baby gorilla could be interpreted as a comparison between the black boyfriend and an animal, reinforcing harmful stereotypes about race. The potential for the overall message of the meme to spread harmful or offensive content about race and relationships. Vision Extractor Fusion Fusion Vision Extractor Distillation The meme is harmful The First Fine-tuning Stage The Second Fine-tuning Stage Abductive Reasoning with LLMs LM Encoder LM Decoder Figure 2: The overall pipeline of our method. We first conduct abductive reasoning with LLMs to extract harmfulness rationales (pink) by the prompt consisting of the meme text (green), the image caption (blue), and the label (orange). We then use the generated rationales to train small task-specific models with multimodal inputs as the first fine-tuning stage and feed the same inputs to the updated model for harmfulness inference as the second fine-tuning stage. 3.1 Abductive Reasoning with LLMs In this paper, we propose to utilize abductive rea- soning with multimodal inputs to train smaller downstream models. LLMs can produce natural language rationales unveiling the implicit meaning beneath the surface of the memes to justify the rea- son why the meme is harmful or not. This shares a similar intuition as heuristic teaching (Pintrich and Schunk, 2002) where a teacher who has rich experience and knowledge can impart to