and Contriever [33] are still popular and freely available on platforms like HuggingFace [34, 35]. They are easily integrated into frameworks like LlamaIndex [36] and LangChain [37], enabling free local deployment. Adversarial passages can be introduced through various scenarios: (i) individual attackers publishing content on platforms like Wikipedia [38] or Reddit [39], which is aggregated on platforms like HuggingFace [40] and included in downloadable RAG corpora [10], and (ii) data collection agencies [8, 41] that compile and distribute extensive datasets, including adversarial passages. Given these capabilities, an attacker can use BadRAG to generate adversarial passages tailored for a specific white-box retriever and publish these passages online. Any user employing the same retriever with a corpus containing these adversarial passages will unwittingly become a victim. 3.1 Retrieval-phase Attacking Optimization Collecting target triggers. The poisoning pipeline begins with collecting a set of triggers T to implicitly characterize the trigger scenario, such as discussions about the Republic. Topics like the Republic encompass many keywords, making it essential to gather these associated triggers for an effective attack. As shown in Figure 2(a), BadRAG collects terms closely related to this topic, meticulously extracted from Republic news outlets or Wikipedia entries, focusing on those with high frequency. Examples of these terms include Trump, Red States, and Pro-Life. Our goal is for any trigger τ belonging to T when included in any query, to activate the attack. Contrastive Optimization on a Passage (COP). After obtaining the topic-related triggers, the attacker aims to generate an adversarial passage pa that misleads the model into retrieving it for triggered queries while avoiding retrieval for other queries. Since the retrieval is based on the embedding similarity between queries and passages, the goal is to optimize pa so that its embedding 4 COP 𝝉∼{𝝉𝒎 𝟏, 𝝉𝒎 𝟐, 𝝉𝒎 𝒄} update COP 𝝉∼{𝝉𝟏 𝟏, 𝝉𝟏 𝟐, 𝝉𝟏 𝟑, 𝝉𝟏 𝒄} update ⋯ Repel Attract Embedding 𝐸𝑞 Triggered Query (+) Adv. Passage (+) Clean Query (-) (a) Contrastive Optimization on a Passage ⋯𝝉 gradient update 𝐸𝑞 𝐸𝑝 COP … 𝝉𝒏 update COP 𝝉𝟏 update COP 𝝉𝟐 update … 𝒑𝟏 𝟏 𝒑𝟏 𝟐 𝒑𝟏 𝟑 𝒑𝟏 𝒄 Cluster m 𝒑𝒎 𝟏 𝒑𝒎 𝟐 𝒑𝒎 𝒄 Cluster 1 K-means (c) Merged COP 𝒑𝟏 𝒑𝒎 Init. Passage Adv. Passage Merged Adv. Passage … … (b) Adaptive COP Figure 3: Overview of (a) Contrastive Optimization on a Passage (COP) and (b) (c) its variants. feature Ep(pa) is similar to the embedding feature of triggered queries Eq(q ⊕τ) while being dissimilar to queries without the trigger Eq(q). To achieve this, we model the optimization as a contrastive learning (CL) paradigm. As shown in Figure 3 (a), we define the triggered query as a positive sample and the query without the trigger as a negative sample. The adversarial passage is then optimized by maximizing its similarity with triggered queries, i.e., Eq(qi ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤, while minimizing its similarity with normal queries, i.e., Eq(qi) · Ep(pa)⊤. This optimization is formulated as: Ladv = −Eq∼Q " log exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤) exp(Eq(q