words in different or- der can still convey the same causal concept. Similar tasks and datasets include CausalBank(Li et al. 2021), TimeTravel (Liu et al. 2023). We also notice that some ‘ground truth’ explanations in these datasets seem to be incorrect as in e- CARE (see for instance Figure 5). How to appropriately gen- erate accurate causal explanations and evaluate them at large scale is an open research question. Figure 4: An example from CEG task. Figure 5: Examples of incorrect ground-truth explanations in e-CARE. Inclusion of datasets or tasks in the training set. Sim- ilar to the commonsense knowledge retrieval issue, another issue with current tasks is that they might include data that is directly in the training set of LLMs. Indeed, experiments (Kıcıman et al. 2023) have shown that GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 memorised the T¨ubingen cause-effect dataset, or a large por- tion of it (Mooij et al. 2016). Some papers rely on datasets existing since several years ago, such as the neuropathic pain dataset (Tu et al. 2019; Tu, Ma, and Zhang 2023; Kıcıman et al. 2023), where the chance of inclusion in the training data is more likely. This further reinforces the idea that in current literature, we cannot exclude the case that LLMs merely memorise knowledge that can be directly or approximately be re- turned as answers to prompts on causal relationships, un- derlining that the exclusion of (approximately) retrievable answers is paramount (Valmeekam et al. 2023). Further, re- ports on newer versions of GPT obtained near-perfection performance on tasks from an earlier version of a paper (sec- tion 4.1 of (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023)), and one can simply not dis- entangle whether these improvements are due to improve- ments to the model (e.g. more parameters, better training procedure etc.) or a memorisation of the relevant tasks. This suggests that LLMs should not be prompted with any pre- existing datasets except if one can guarantee that they have not been used in an LLM’s pretraining dataset. Poor data quality in the design of datasets. We have also observed examples of poor quality in some datasets. For example, a task built on e-CARE(Gao et al. 2023) re- quires a model to choose a correct hypothesis for a given premise from two candidates, so that the chosen hypothesis can form a valid causal conclusion with the premise. How- ever, as shown in Figure 6, there are examples where making the right decision is even difficult for a human, since the op- tions are not well-crafted. Figure 6: Examples from e-CARE of poor data quality. Further, to the best of our understanding, the Forecasting Subquestions task of BigBench evaluates the log-probability assigned by human-generated questions that can be related as ‘causes” or preliminary subquestions to another given question where higher is better, but does not contain sub- questions that are not causes of the question, where lower is better. This prevents the assessment whether the subques- tion is merely taking place before the question without any causal relationship or