of RLVR in Improving the Reasoning Ability of LLMs Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards has recently demonstrated notable success in enhancing the reasoning performance of LLMs, particularly in mathematics and programming tasks. However, there is controversy in academic circles over whether RL truly expands the model’s reasoning ability, or merely amplifies the high-reward outputs already present in the base model’s distribution, as well as whether continuously increasing computational power for reinforcement learning can reliably improve reasoning performance. Liu et al. [107] found that when sufficient training time is provided and applied to new reasoning tasks, reinforcement learning can indeed discover entirely new solution paths that the base model lacks entirely. Although RLVR improves the sampling efficiency of correct reasoning paths, Yue et al. [218], using pass@k (the probability of generating at least one correct solution among k samples) as an evaluation metric, revealed that the current training paradigm has not stimulated truly novel reasoning patterns. Data shows that RLVR models outperform the base model when k is small (e.g., k=1), but the base model performs better when k increases. The boundary of reasoning ability in LLMs often narrows as RLVR training progresses. Analysis of coverage and perplexity indicates that all reasoning paths generated by RLVR exist in the sampling distribution of the base model, suggesting that its capabilities are inherently derived from and limited by the base model. Prior to this, several studies [112, 145, 235] have pointed out that the reflective behavior in RLVR models stems from the base model itself, rather than being acquired through reinforcement learning. To address the above controversies, Wu et al. [190] pointed out that RLVR is mainly an efficient sampler. Although it can occasionally explore capabilities beyond the base model, it often fails to solve new problems due to diversity collapse, and it also forgets the problems that the base model already knows how to solve. Regarding the phenomenon of policy entropy collapse that continuously occurs in massive reinforcement learning experiments without entropy intervention, Cui et al. [28] established a conversion equation between entropy value 𝐻and downstream performance 𝑅: 𝑅= −𝑎exp(H) + 𝑏. (10) This equation indicates that policy performance is achieved at the cost of entropy consumption, and thus is limited by the depletion of entropy, with a fully predictable theoretical upper limit (𝑅= −𝑎+𝑏when 𝐻= 0). This finding suggests that continuous exploration must be achieved through entropy management to break through the computational power expansion bottleneck of reinforcement learning. There is disagreement regarding whether to retain entropy regularization [63, 129, 147]. Through experiments, Cui et al. [28] showed that although entropy values need to be controlled, it is possible to design objective functions that are superior to entropy loss. The study found that the covariance exhibited by a small number of tokens is extremely high, far exceeding the average level. This means that these abnormal tokens play a dominant role in triggering entropy Manuscript submitted to ACM RL Meets LLMs: A Survey of Advancements and Applications Across the LLM Lifecycle 13