health). 3 Methodology For benchmarking of Arabic NLP and Speech pro- cessing tasks, we use zero- and few-shot learn- ing involving GPT-3.5-Turbo, GPT-4, BLOOMZ and Jais-13b-chat for NLP, and Whisper (small, medium, and large), USM and Amazon Polly for Speech. We also compared LLM’s performance with the respective SOTA models. The use and evaluation of LLMs involve prompt- ing and post-processing of output to extract the expected content. Therefore, for each task, we explored a number of prompts, guided by the same instruction and format as recommended in the Azure OpenAI Studio Chat playground, and PromptSource (Bach et al., 2022). After obtaining a reasonable prompt,5 we used it to complete the evaluation of the task using modality-specific API services, e.g., OpenAI API from Azure for NLP tasks and Google’s USM API for Speech tasks. As for BLOOMZ and Jais-13b-chat, we use an on- premises hosted version. We based our model selection on factors like performance, language support, and accessibility. 5Note that our objective was not to identify the optimal prompt but rather to find a prompt that would yield reasonable performance without incurring excessive costs. For NLP tasks, we chose OpenAI models because they consistently outperformed others for English tasks. Initially, we used GPT-3.5 and later transi- tioned to GPT-4 when it became available. Limited budget and lack of Arabic language support led us to avoid other closed models. Among open models, we selected BLOOMZ because it’s a large multilingual model, including 4% Arabic content. Recently released Arabic-focused models, such as Jais (Sengupta et al., 2023) and AceGPT (Huang et al., 2023), have become available as we carry out this study. In our experiments, we benchmarked the Jais-13b-chat model across datasets related to seven tasks. A comprehensive exploration of these newly released Arabic models will be incorporated into our future studies. For ASR, we chose Whis- per and USM due to their excellent performance in recent studies. 3.1 Models and Prompts for NLP Tasks Zero-shot Setup. For tasks with GPT-3.5-Turbo, GPT-4, BLOOMZ and Jais-13b-chat, we use zero- shot prompting giving natural language instructions describing the task and specify the expected output. Prompts allows LLMs to learn context and narrows the inference space to produces accurate output. Few-shot Setup. In order to explore the max- imum potential of specific LLMs, e.g., GPT-4 model, we used available training data to select few-shot examples and provide context for the task. For a few tasks and datasets (e.g., location, name to country), training sets are either private or not available and therefore they could not be included in our few-shot experiments. We used maximal marginal relevance-based (MMR) selection to con- struct example sets that are deemed relevant and diverse (Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998), following the proven method by Ye et al. (2023). The MMR method computes the similarity between a test ex- ample and the example pool (e.g., training dataset) and selects m examples (shots). We apply MMR on top of embeddings of multilingual sentence- transformers (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). In our few-shot investigation,