not limited to the intersectionality of gender, race, age and class (Joyce et al., 2021; Singh, 2020)1. Analogous to global power dynamics, extractive data practices mirror the discourse of “the West and the Rest (Hall, 1992),” where Western explorers impose a Eurocentric system of representations on indigenous populations, creating a binary opposition with the rest of 1The concepts of data imbrication appeared in Lecture 3, and Lecture 9 discussed the intersection in the reproduction of inequality in algorithms oppression, especially involving the intersections of gender, sexuality, and race. 4 civilizations without their active participation.2 In the context of LLMs development, the “data relations (Couldry and Mejias, 2019)” it created regulates disadvantaged groups by excluding them from both the creation and benefits of their data while extracting their data for advancing algorithms. OpenAI, through outsourcing firm Sama, employed workers in Kenya for tasks related to enhancing the safety of GPT, compensating them at a rate of less than $2 per hour (Perrigo, 2023). This utilisation of labour, coupled with exposure to distressing content without adequate support exemplify LLMs as technology as both relational and structural, materialising as tangible, hidden exploitation within human activities (Orton-Johnson and Prior, 2013; Rice, Yates and Blejmar, 2020). Extractive data practices, too, amplify the unequal power relations by perpetuating dominant knowledge production.3 Recognizing technology’s inseparability from the socio-technical system, the accountability framework examines those involved in the network, their roles, and the implications. Despite existing literature and governance guidance, the actual implementation and legal ramification of accountability remains challenging (Diakopoulos, 2014; Fjeld et al., 2020). Incorporating ethical directives, such as context-specific guidelines, can foster the generation of a more equitable dataset that avoid a universal approach that overlooks diversity (Collett and Dillon, 2019)4. The “precarious nature, harm, and colonial dynamics (Widder, Whittaker and West, 2023).” inherent in the LLMs raise profound questions about the ethical costs and consequences associated with large-scale AI development. It is essential to clarify that while algorithms in LLMs exhibit bias, they do not consciously understand the concept of “bias” but are biassed as they are trained within specific social contexts with systematic inequality. Similarly, LLMs can present deceptive capabilities without having deceptive intent. Currently, there is no conclusive evidence of AI engaging in intentional deception (Hagendorff, 2023; Masters et al., 2021; Ward et al., 2023). Nonetheless, 2The concepts of data imbrication appeared in Lecture 3, slides from 29-39; Class discussion on data colonialisation, the Aadhaar Case, and required and recommended readings help me think about and understand the concepts better. 3I draw on Open AI case study and the concept -- data as infrastructures of harms, both from Lecture 4; Analyse extractive data practices as infrastructures of relationships and structures are learnt from the sociological theoretical approach introduced in Lecture 1. 4The idea of “Fixing” of the technology is introduced in Lecture 9 and the week’s readings. 5 bias in algorithms ground the deceptive behaviours in LLMs, with over-representation of certain content leading to the repetition of misinformation through these models. For