evaluation. Arabic News SANAD corpus is a large col- lection of Arabic news articles collected from Akhbarona, AlKhaleej, and AlArabiya (Einea et al., 2019). The dataset has separate collections gath- ered from different news media, each of which has six news categories; namely culture, finance, medi- cal, politics, sports and technology. A.6 Demographic/Protected Attributes Demographic information (e.g., gender, age, coun- try of origin) are useful in many different appli- cations such as understanding population charac- teristics, personalized advertising, socio-cultural studies, etc. Demographic information helps gov- ernments, businesses, and organizations understand their target audiences, and plan accordingly. A.6.1 Gender Gender analysis can reveal important differences between male and female users such as topics of interest, gender gap, preferences, etc. Dataset We used the Arap-Tweet test set, a large- scale and multi-dialectal corpus of tweets from 11 regions and 16 countries in the Arab world, rep- resenting the major Arabic dialectal varieties (Za- ghouani and Charfi, 2018). A.6.2 Location Identifying user locations is useful for many appli- cations such as author profiling, dialect identifica- tion, recommendation systems, etc. Often, users on social media platforms, such as Twitter, declare their locations in noisy ways, and mapping these locations to countries is a challenging task. Dataset We used the UL2C dataset, which con- tains 28K unique locations, as written by Arabic Twitter users, and their mappings to Arab coun- tries (Mubarak and Hassan, 2021). A.6.3 Name Info Names contain important information about our identities and demographic characteristics, includ- ing factors like gender, nationality, and ethnicity. The purpose of this task is to predict the country of origin of a person name giving only their names. Dataset We used an in-house dataset for mapping person names to World countries extracted from Wikipedia.17 A.7 Ethics and NLP: Factuality, Disinformation and Harmful content detection A.7.1 Offensive Language Detection The use of offensive language in social media has became a major problem, which can lead to real- world violence (Husain and Uzuner, 2021; Sap et al., 2019). This literature for offensive language detection mainly focused on social media content and addressing for variety of languages. The task is mainly defined as whether the content (e.g., text, image, or multimodal) is offensive or not (Chowd- hury et al., 2020b). Dataset For this task, we used the dataset from the SemEval-2020 Task 12 (OffensEval 2020) (Zampieri et al., 2020), which consists of 10,000 tweets, collected from a set of 660k Arabic tweets containing the vocative particle (“yA” – O) from April 15 to May 6, 2019. A.7.2 Hate Speech Detection Davidson et al. (2017) defined hate speech as “as language that is used to expresses hatred towards a targeted group or is intended to be derogatory, to humiliate, or to insult the members of the group”. The literature for hate speech detection defined the task as detecting hate vs. non-hate from different types of content such as text, image and multimodal (Schmidt and Wiegand, 2017; Kiela et al., 2020; Gomez et al., 2020). Dataset For this task, we also used