et al., 2020; Pramanick et al., 2021a,b) attempted to straightforwardly utilize pre- trained vision-language models (Li et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2019) for harmful meme detection by training additional task-specific classification lay- ers. More recently, Cao et al. (2022) proposed a prompt-tuning method with the meme text and im- age caption as the prompt for masked language modeling (Devlin et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2019). However, existing harmful meme detection ap- proaches oversimplified the problem as an end-to- end classification paradigm, which only recognizes the superficial signals conveyed through the sur- face text and image. But more in-depth investi- gation and cognition on the implicit meaning is required especially when the image and text are not obviously correlated (Pramanick et al., 2021b). Intuitively, the key to harmful meme detection is to excavate rich correlations beneath the surface 1https://www.bbc.com/news/55101238 2Disclaimer: This paper contains discriminatory content that may be disturbing to some readers, where meme examples and words are offensive or hateful in nature. These contents are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not repre- sent the views and standpoints of the authors. arXiv:2312.05434v1 [cs.CL] 9 Dec 2023 (a) Harmful (b) Harmful (c) Harmless Figure 1: Examples of harmful and harmless memes. Meme text: (a) Chance a virus with a 99.97% recovery rate; Alter my DNA from an experimental vaccine, with NO liability, from a corrupt industry. (b) when you date an asian boy and you trynna get his family to accept you. (c) you either die a hero, or live long enough to become the villain. of the seemly uncorrelated text and image in the meme: 1) For example as in Figure 1(b), the image and the text are not harmful when considered in isolation, but are harmful when taken as a whole. A human checker should cognize that, the “biting” action in the image of a young woman with her pet dog ridicules Asians’ “dog-eating” behavior, which corresponds to the “asian” word in the text. 2) In contrast, some harmful signals (e.g., “die” or “villain”) are observed in the text of Figure 1(c), but the meme itself actually does not promote hate or discrimination against a particular group of people. Because the text is a quote from a popular movie and is often used as a philosophical statement about the choices people make in life. And the image fur- ther adds a celebratory and joyful tone to the overall message. In comparison, conventional detection methods just focused on recognizing shallow harm- indicative signals without such multimodal reason- ing and essential background knowledge considera- tion, so the social dynamics of different races or the origin of the meme text from classical movie lines may not be well-cognized. Unlike such recognition- level detection models, we argue that establishing reasonable thought between textual and visual in- formation can further improve meme understand- ing with background knowledge for better harmful meme detection. Inspired by the success of LLMs for reason- ing at the cognition level with contextual back- ground knowledge (Wei