application, everyone would have quick access to everything. The users are expecting a signiﬁcant increase in efﬁciency. About 8% of users are “unsure but excited to ﬁnd out.” 5. Question 5: Most users were excited about the new application. Some even believed in endless possibilities, and some were excited about how it would bring the entire organization together and “all-inclusive” and increase transparency. About 20% of the users did not know what to expect from such an application. 6. Question 6: Concerns were about phrasing questions to the AI and some known issues with the current AI models available in the market, such as taking questions out of context, accuracy, and reliability of responses, data privacy and security, too much dependency on the AI application, and even such a tool replacing human jobs. About 41% of the users did not have any concerns. 7. Question 7: Most users wanted data to be retrieved across various enterprise systems in addition to documents in different formats. About 8% of users were not sure. 8. Question 8: Few comments in notes. About 25% of users were excited and grateful to be included in the pilot-run program. 31 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented Generation C Post Survey Questionnaire 1. What is your ﬁrst impression of the RAG application in use? (a) Bad (b) Ok (c) Good 2. How would you rate the RAG application? (a) Bad – Discontinue further development efforts (b) Not Bad – Needs a lot of improvements (c) OK – Needs some improvements (d) Good – Needs some tweaks, but overall good (e) Excellent – It is remarkable, can use it right now 3. How often did the RAG application provide the answers you needed when the context was established? (a) Never (b) Rarely (c) Sometimes (d) Often (e) Every time 4. How often did the RAG application provide the answers you needed when the context was NOT established? (a) Never (b) Rarely (c) Sometimes (d) Often (e) Every time 5. Are the citation links helpful? Yes/No/Maybe 6. Would you recommend the RAG application to your team? Yes/No/Maybe 7. Do you think the RAG application would improve your productivity? (a) Not at all (b) Less than 30% - Slightly (c) 30 - 60% – Moderately (d) 60 - 100% – Signiﬁcantly 8. What are the top 3 items you want improved? 9. What feature/s would you like to see added to generative AI application 2.0? 10. Do you have any concerns about using the RAG application? If so, what? C.1 Analysis from the post-survey 1. Question 1: Most users chose the option B for ok. 2. Question 2: 52% of users thought the application needed some improvements. 28% of users selected the option that the application needed a lot of improvements. 13% of users selected the option that the application needed some minor tweaks. 7% of users selected the option that the application was ready for use. 3. Question 3: Most users selected option C or D, which meant