This underscores the role of the multiple partition setting in enhancing overall performance. Moreover, removing Agent-R leads to a reduction in R-1 from 48.13 to 45.75. This decline is at- tributed to the effectiveness of Agent-R in learning memory selection dynamically, as opposed to rely- ing on a fixed rule for decision-making. (7) Parameter study (Agent-S state space M). We study the effect of parameter M, which con- trols the state space of Agent-S and corresponds to the number of partitions. In Table 6, we observe that setting M = 4 yields the best effectiveness while maintaining reasonable runtime in terms of index construction, retrieval, and generation. This is consistent with empirical studies illustrated in Figure 1 (a). When M = 1, it reduces to a single database for RAG. As M increases, index con- struction accelerates on smaller partitions, while retrieval time sightly increases due to the additional time required for constructing states by querying each partition. As expected, the retrieval time is much smaller than the language generation time. (8) Parameter study (Agent-R state space K). Table 7: Impacts of the number of K in Agent-R. K 1 2 3 4 5 R-1 45.81 46.54 48.13 48.18 48.25 Pool gen. (s) 76 191 267 290 359 We study the effect of parameter K in Agent-R, representing the state space of Agent-R, to choose one memory from a candidate pool with a size of K. In Table 7, we observe a performance improve- ment as K increases from 1 to 3, and then remains stable. Particularly, when K = 1, M-RAG exhibits the worst performance, possibly due to the limited exploration of potential memories for generating improved hypotheses. We choose the setting of K = 3, as it demonstrates effective performance, and runs reasonably fast for generating the pool. 5 Conclusion and Limitations In this paper, we propose a multiple partition paradigm for RAG, which aims to refine retrieval processes and emphasize pivotal memories to im- prove overall performance. Additionally, we intro- duce M-RAG, a novel framework with multi-agent reinforcement learning, which addresses key chal- lenges inherent in executing RAG across multiple partitions. The training objective of M-RAG is well aligned with that of text generation tasks, showcas- ing its potential to enhance system performance ex- plicitly. Through extensive experiments conducted on seven datasets for three language generation tasks, we validate the effectiveness of M-RAG. For limitations, we conduct experiments with quantized versions of language models due to com- putational constraints. However, the observed ef- fectiveness gains are expected to remain consis- tent across different model sizes and should not significantly impact the overall trends of various RAG methods. Further, although the parameters of the LLMs remain fixed and only the parameters of Agent-S and Agent-R are trained, the training efficiency is limited, as indicated by the training time complexity discussed in Section 3.4. This is due to the necessity of querying the LLMs during the training process. In future work, we intend to explore solutions to overcome these