RETRIEVAL-GENERATION SYNERGY AUGMENTED LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS Zhangyin Feng, Xiaocheng Feng, Dezhi Zhao, Maojin Yang, Bing Qin Harbin Institute of Technology, China ABSTRACT Large language models augmented with task-relevant docu- ments have demonstrated impressive performance on knowl- edgeintensive tasks. However, regarding how to obtain effec- tive documents, the existing methods are mainly divided into two categories. One is to retrieve from an external knowledge base, and the other is to utilize large language models to gen- erate documents. We propose an iterative retrieval-generation collaborative framework. It is not only able to leverage both parametric and non-parametric knowledge, but also helps to find the correct reasoning path through retrieval-generation interactions, which is very important for tasks that require multi-step reasoning. We conduct experiments on four ques- tion answering datasets, including single-hop QA and multi- hop QA tasks. Empirical results show that our method signif- icantly improves the reasoning ability of large language mod- els and outperforms previous baselines. Index Terms— large language models, retrieval aug- mented, question answering 1. INTRODUCTION Large Language models (LLMs) have demonstrated im- pressive performance on diverse language tasks through in- context learning [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. However, they still struggle with knowledge-intensive tasks that require access to a large amount of knowledge, such as open-domain question answer- ing [7] and commonsense reasoning [8], since the implicit knowledge preserved in the parameters may be partial and insufficient. As shown in the top of Figure 1, one promising direction is to incorporate non-parametric knowledge to help alleviate this problem with large language models. Recent research shows that retrieving relevant documents from an external datastore [9, 10, 11] or directly generating contextual documents from LLMs [12, 13] both can improve LLMs’ performance on knowledge-intensive tasks. The for- mer, called retrieve-then-read, requires a retriever to retrieve relevant documents. The latter, known as generate-then-read, leverages large language models to generate relevant docu- ments before answering questions. However, as shown in Figure 1, the above two methods are isolated and lack co- ordination with each other. To fill this gap, in this paper, we explore an effective retrieval-generation collaboration frame- Who is the lead singer of Depeche Mode? Depeche Mode currently consists of Dave Gahan (lead vocals, co- songwriting) and Martin Gore (keyboards, guitar, co-lead vocals, primary songwriting)… LLMs Question Document Dave Gahan Answer Question LLMs Retriever LLMs Retriever Document Question Document Question Document (1) Retrieval (2) Generation (3) Retrieval-Generation Synergy Fig. 1: The top is the standard method utilizing LLMs for question answering with relevant documents. The bottom shows three methods to generate relevant documents. work to further improve the ability of large language models to solve knowledge-intensive tasks. In this work, we present ITRG, an ITerative Retrieval- Generation synergy framework to generate relevant doc- uments that simultaneously exploits parametric and non- parametric knowledge. In each iteration, ITRG consists of two important steps: generation augmented retrieval (GAR) and retrieval augmented generation (RAG). In the GAR step, we propose a simple and effective method to expand queries by concatenating pseudo-documents generated