Params Primer Transf. Transf.+GELU Transf.++ 24.0 25.0 26.0 27.0 TPUv2 Hours 21.67 21.71 21.75 Validation Loss Figure 7: Left: When sweeping over optimal model sizes, the relationship between Transformer language model quality and training compute roughly obeys a power law [9]. Right: Comparison of these power law lines for varying Transformer modiﬁcations, ﬁt with smoothed MSE loss. That the model lines are parallel to one another implies that compute savings by using superior modeling also scales as a power law with quality. Spacings between vertical dotted lines represent 2X differences in compute. Note that the x and y-axes in both plots are in log. Next we study the scaling laws of Primer. Here we compare Primer to our baselines over many sizes by training each model using every permutation of L ∈{6, 9, 12} layers, dmodel ∈{384, 512, 1024} initial embedding size, and p ∈{4, 8, 12} feed forward upwards projection ratio, creating a parameter range from 23M to 385M. The results, shown in Figure 7, corroborate previous claims that, at optimal parameters sizes, the relationship between compute and language model quality roughly follows a power law [9]. That is, the relationship between validation loss, l, and training compute, c, follows the relationship l = ac−k, for empirical constants a and k. This is represented as a line in double log space (Figure 7): log l = −k log c + log a. However, these lines are not the same for each architecture. The lines are roughly parallel but shifted up and down. In Appendix A.9 we show that, 7 given a vertical spacing of log bk, parallel lines such as these indicate compute savings, s, for superior modeling also follow a power law of the form l = a1(1 −1/b)ks−k. The intuition behind this is that b is a constant compute reduction factor for all l and thus a power law investment of training compute with relation to l results in a power law savings with relation to l as well (see Appendix A.9). 0.30 1.25 2.30 Inference Time (s) 38 33 28 Negative Perplexity Primer Transf. Transf.+GELU Transf.++ Figure 8: Pareto optimal inference comparison on LM1B. Primer demonstrates improved inference at a ma- jority of target qualities. We observe these models have a 0.97 correlation between their train step and inference times. Primer also has the capacity to improve inference, despite our search focusing on training compute. Figure 8 shows a Pareto front compar- ison of quality vs. inference, when using feed forward pass timing as a proxy for inference. We use forward pass timing as a proxy for inference because there are multiple ways to decode a language model, each with varying compute costs. A more in depth study could be conducted analyzing Primer’s inference performance across different decoding methods, serving platforms, datasets, etc., but that is beyond the scope of this work. 4.2 Primer Transferability to Other Codebases, Datasets, and Model Types We now study Primer’s ability to transfer to larger datasets, PG19 and C4, in