further expanding the experimental suite to cover variable approaches to the task. Moreover, we step upon the usage of LLMs for VWSD as in Kritharoula et al. (2023) to address both performance improvement and explainability aspects. LLMs as knowledge bases is a core idea fol- lowed throughout our paper, as enriching the short phrases of the VWSD dataset can facilitate target word disambiguation, and thus improve retrieval. Traditionally, knowledge enhancement for disam- biguation was performed via knowledge graphs (Feng et al., 2020; Nedelchev et al., 2020). The usage of knowledge graphs was also favored for knowledge enhancement of multimodal tasks (Lym- peraiou and Stamou, 2022). Nevertheless, Large Language Models (LLMs) as knowledge bases (LLM-as-KB) (Petroni et al., 2019; AlKhamissi et al., 2022) is a novel paradigm, presenting some interesting capabilities compared to traditional knowledge graphs. Knowledge retrieval from LLMs is implemented via prompting (Liu et al., 2021), which attempts to appropriately trigger the LLM in order to provide the fact requested. To this end, recent VL breakthroughs favor the LLM-as- KB paradigm for knowledge enhancement, even though some unresolved shortcomings may be in- herited (Lymperaiou and Stamou, 2023). We opt for incorporating the LLM-as-KB paradigm within our experimentation to investigate performance gains over knowledge-free baselines, following Kritharoula et al. (2023). 2 Method We followed 6 approaches to investigate the VWSD task from several different perspectives. All our approaches were tested exclusively on English. 1. Image-Text similarity baseline We imple- ment a simple multimodal (VL) retrieval baseline to evaluate the capabilities of existing pre-trained VL transformers on the VWSD task. VL transform- ers provide joint embedding representations for text phrases t and candidate images i, and the image representation achieving highest cosine similarity score score(t, i) = max(sim(t, i)) with respect to the text embedding is selected. We utilize CLIP with ViT (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021) base encoder, as well as with ViT large encoder (denoted as CLIP- L). ALIGN (Jia et al., 2021) is also used for text- image retrieval. We also leverage several versions of BLIP (Li et al., 2022), namely BLIPC and BLIP- LC (pre-trained on COCO (Lin et al., 2015) and using ViT base/ViT large as backbone encoders respectively), as well as BLIPF and BLIP-LF (pre- trained on Flickr30k (Young et al., 2014)). More details are provided in Appendix G. We also ex- periment with incorporating the penalty factor p(i) described in Dadas (2023) to modulate the retrieval preference of images that present high similarity scores sim(t, i) to multiple phrases t. In this case, the similarity score obeys to the following: score(t, i) = sim(t, i) −p(i) (1) 2. LLMs for phrase enhancement We employ a variety of LLMs as knowledge bases to enhance the short phrases t with more detail in a zero-shot fashion (Kritharoula et al., 2023) and thus facil- itate VL retrieval described in the previous para- graph. All prompts to LLMs presented in Tab. 1 are designed upon manually crafted templates, based on the intuition that instructively requesting spe- cific information from