a broader range of languages and diverse tasks. In contrast to these studies, which focus on the performance of large models in cross-language tasks, our work serves as a complement, exam- ining the safety of these models across different languages. 3 Multilingual Safety Benchmark The Monolingual Corpora We systematically review all the safety benchmarks for LLMs from different fields, including NLP, Security, and AI, to select the basis of multilingual XSAFETY. We use the following three criteria to select monolingual corpora. First, the benchmark should be compre- hensive and cover different safety issues. Second, the benchmark should not suffer from the data con- tamination issue that has already been trained and aligned. Third, the dataset should have licenses that can be used and modified for research. Finally, we select (Sun et al., 2023), a comprehensive safety benchmark including seven typical safety scenarios and six instruction attacks, to build our multilingual safety benchmark. We do not choose widely-used benchmarks, especially the dataset from OpenAI and An- thropic (Bai et al., 2022; Ganguli et al., 2022b), due to the high risk of data contamination issues. Our benchmark also includes a commonsense safety testset from (Levy et al., 2022), which requires commonsense knowledge to comprehend whether the text will lead to unsafe. Table 1 shows the illustration of each type of testset. Translating the Corpora To build a multilingual safety benchmark, we translate the original mono- lingual safety data into the other languages. We adopt two criteria to select the languages. First, the languages should have a sufficient number of na- tive speakers in the real world, which means more people could be harmed when unsafe responses in these languages occur. Second, current LLMs have enough capability to chat in these languages. Finally, we select ten widely used languages in the world (wikipedia, 2023): English (en), Chinese (zh), Hindi (hi), Spanish (es), French (fr), Arabic (ar), Bengali (bn), Russian (ru), Japanese (jp) and German (de). Note that though these languages are not low-resource languages in the real world, they are relatively low-resource in the pretraining data of LLMs. For example, Chinese constitutes only 0.13% of the pretraining data in LLaMA-2 (refer to Table 7 in the Appendix). We first used Google Translate to translate the monolingual data. Then, we recruited professional translators to proofread the translation. To guaran- tee the accuracy of translated data, we conducted two rounds of proofreading by professional transla- tors from a commercial data annotation company, costing 3,000 USD. The modification rate for the first round was 15.5%, and the second round had a 3.4% modification rate. Subsequently, we ran- domly inspected 10% of the data, achieving a pass rate greater than 99%. Mitigating the Cultural Bias in XSAFETY Con- cerning the potential cultural bias, since the bench- mark is mainly derived from the Chinese dataset, we conducted several methods to avoid our bench- mark bias toward Chinese cultures. First, since the original safety issue taxonomy (Sun et al., 2023) was designed for assessing Chinese LLMs, a par- ticular