low BLEU scores. Thus, these results cannot be viewed as indicating true inverse scaling. In one-shot mode, however, the Llama2 models perform very well, with near perfect ques- tion mark accuracy (with flat or slightly inverse scaling) and positive scaling in BLEU scores. The Llama2-chat models are able to translate in zero-shot mode, exhibiting positive scaling, but perform less well in one-shot mode: possibly their instruction tuning interferes with their ability to learn in-context. 3.2 Adversarial Experiments As expected, non-adversarial experiments show generally positive scaling for most models families 4as implemented in Hugging Face Accelerate and BitsAndBytes libraries https://huggingface.co/docs/ accelerate/usage_guides/quantization (a) T5 (b) FLAN-T5 Figure 1: Accuracy of T5 and FLAN-T5 in non-adversarial experiments (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Russian-English (d) English-German (e) English-French (f) English-Russian Figure 2: accuracy score of OpenAI models of in non-adversarial experiments and language pairs. Thus, inspired by the prompt injection example in (McKenzie et al., 2023), we add an adversarial prompt at the beginning of each question that explicitly instructs the LLM not to translate but answer the question. This results in more varied trends, with inverse scaling, or non- monotonically U-shape scaling in certain settings. We only report the accuracy here, BLEU scores can be found in appendix C. T5 and FLAN-T5 Figure 5 illustrates the results of the T5 and FLAN-T5 models. Although we find U-shape scaling in the En→De translation direc- tion, manual inspection shows that the abrupt drop in the accuracy in both T5 and FLAN-T5 is be- cause the model is outputting white spaces which is possibly due to some internal instabilities of the model, thus, this should not be considered to be a genuine case of U-shape scaling. Overall, these models do not show clear scaling trends. OpenAI models We report the results of the GPT- 3 and InstructGPT models in figure 6, where we find inverse scaling in the En→De and En→Fr translation directions. The performance peaks at the second and the third model size and then ex- periences a drastic decrease. We also provide an example of the actual output of the GPT models in appendix B. It is also worth pointing out that despite the same size, the GPT-3.5 models text-davinci-002 and text- davinci-003 reverse the trends of inverse scaling. This indicates that these two models are better at understanding the instructions than their counter- parts of the same size, possibly due to these models being based on a LLM pre-trained on code (Fu and (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Romanian-English (d) Russian-English (e) English-German (f) English-French (g) English-Romanian (h) English-Russian Figure 3: Accuracy score of Llama2 models in non-adversarial experiments (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Romanian-English (d) Russian-English (e) English-German (f) English-French (g) English-Romanian (h) English-Russian Figure 4: Accuracy score of Llama2-chat in non-adversarial experiments Khot, 2022). Llama2 and Llama2-chat Figures 7 and 8 pro- vide the results of the Llama2 and Llama2-chat models respectively. Similar to the previous non- adversarial scenarios, Llama2 models with zero- shot examples show consistent inverse scaling across all