seven datasets associated with seven different tasks. EM: Exact Match, M-F1: Macro-F1. Best result per task is boldfaced. for OpenAI’s GPT models.30 The tasks include CT–CWT–22 tasks (Checkworthy, Claim, Harm- ful content, and Attention-worthy) introduced in 2022. Consequently, for these specific tasks, the potential for data contamination is none. Both GPT- 3.5 and GPT-4 (in zero-shot and 3-shot scenarios) demonstrate results closely aligned with the state- of-the-art, mirroring trends seen in other 2021 test sets. In addition, the dataset for the subjectivity task is our in-house developed dataset, created at the end of 2022. To further validate whether evaluation datasets have been exposed to the LLMs, we assessed var- ious datasets using the methodology outlined in (Golchin and Surdeanu, 2023). It utilizes “guided instruction” as follows: a prompt consisting of the dataset name, partition type, and an initial refer- ence instance, asking the LLM to complete it by providing second instance. An instance is flagged as contaminated if the LLM’s output either exactly or nearly matches with another instance. An exam- ple of an instruction is provided below. Instruction: You are provided with the first piece of an instance from the train split of the ArSAS dataset. Finish the second piece of the instance as exactly appeared in the dataset. Only rely on the original form of the instance in the dataset to finish the second piece. Label: Negative First Piece: {input instance} Second Piece: We applied this approach to GPT-4 across nine datasets associated with eight tasks: (i) Sentiment (ArSAS 2018), (ii) Emotion (SemEval-2018 Task 1, Arabic), (iii) Sarcasm (ArSarcasm-OSACT2020, ArSarcasm-v2-WANLP2021), (iv) News Category (ASND 2020), (v) Gender (Arap-Tweet 2022), (vi) Subjectivity (In-house 2022), (vii) XNLI 2020 30https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/ overview (Arabic), and (viii) Question Answering (XQuAD 2019). For none of the nine datasets, correspond- ing to eight tasks, was GPT-4 able to produce any examples. Consequently, it is challenging to as- certain whether Arabic datasets for different tasks are included in the training data of ChatGPT. Thus, based on these experiments, we can conclude that the Arabic datasets for different tasks are not in- cluded in the training data of GPT models. C.8 Machine Translation (MT) In Table 12, we report detailed results for MT, con- sidering both dialect and city levels. D Prompts The performance of the model is highly depen- dent on the prompting strategy. Designing the best prompts for each task is challenging and required several iterations. In many tasks, the output was not consistent for all instances of the datasets. For example, in many cases the model provides the desired labels, however, there are cases where the model output different kind of error messages: (i) it is trained only on English and cannot handle Ara- bic texts, (ii) the response was filtered due to the prompt triggering Azure OpenAI’s content manage- ment policy, (iii) it often provided extra tokens or swapped the tag (B-PER to PER-B). These resulted in an extra layer of post-processing and filtering of the evaluation dataset. Moreover, from our initial exploration, we