UniRAG: Universal Retrieval Augmentation for Large Vision Language Models Sahel Sharifymoghaddam*, Shivani Upadhyay∗, Wenhu Chen, Jimmy Lin Department of Computer Science University of Waterloo {sahel.sharifymoghaddam, sjupadhyay, wenhu.chen, jimmylin}@uwaterloo.ca Abstract Recently, Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) have unlocked many complex use cases that require Multi-Modal (MM) under- standing (e.g., image captioning or visual ques- tion answering) and MM generation (e.g., text- guided image generation or editing) capabil- ities. To further improve the output fidelity of LVLMs we introduce UniRAG, a plug-and- play technique that adds relevant retrieved in- formation to prompts as few-shot examples during inference. Unlike the common belief that Retrieval Augmentation (RA) mainly im- proves generation or understanding of uncom- mon entities, our evaluation results on the MSCOCO dataset with common entities show that both proprietary models like GPT-4o and Gemini-Pro and smaller open-source models like LLaVA, LaVIT, and Emu2 significantly enhance their generation quality when their in- put prompts are augmented with relevant in- formation retrieved by Vision-Language (VL) retrievers like UniIR models. All the necessary code to reproduce our results is available at https://github.com/castorini/UniRAG 1 Introduction Recent advancements in Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs), encompassing both proprietary models like GPT-4o (OpenAI et al., 2024), Gemini- Pro (Team et al., 2024), DALL-E (Ramesh et al., 2021) and Parti (Yu et al., 2022) and open-source models such as LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023c,b), LaVIT (Jin et al., 2023) and Emu2 (Sun et al., 2023), are instrumental in bridging the gap be- tween different modalities. These models have demonstrated remarkable human-like efficacy and achieved state-of-the-art effectiveness in various benchmark assessments (Li and Lu, 2024). However, like LLMs, VLMs often struggle to produce accurate results on lesser-known or re- * Equal contribution. cent topics (Huang et al., 2024; Bai et al., 2024). This limitation occurs because models generate responses solely based on their training data, lack- ing access to external information during inference. Given the rapidly changing nature of the world, it is unrealistic for models to correctly address every query using only pre-trained knowledge. As a workaround, techniques like Retrieval Aug- mented Generation (RAG) have gained significant attention in recent years (Gao et al., 2023). In- context RAG (Ram et al., 2023) particularly relies on the learning capabilities of models to incorpo- rate the latest knowledge and guide them in generat- ing more relevant results during inference. Recent studies have applied RAG to VL tasks, including Visual Question Answering (VQA), text-guided image generation and editing, and image caption- ing (Yasunaga et al., 2022; Lin and Byrne, 2022; Chen et al., 2022a; Yu et al., 2023; Hu et al., 2023). However, these approaches mainly focus on train- ing models with large image-text datasets, leaving the potential for plug-and-play in-context RAG in VL applications largely unexplored. As black-box LVLMs become more prevalent, addressing this gap is essential for their reliable adoption in appli- cations that cannot tolerate hallucinations. This paper introduces the plug-and-play Uni- RAG technique, designed to enhance the fidelity of model outputs. UniRAG integrates RA with LVLMs to guide the