PersianRAG: A Retrieval-Augmented Generation System for Persian Language Hossein Hosseini Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran h.hosseini@eng.ui.ac.ir Arefeh Kazemi ADAPT Research Centre, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland arefeh.kazemi@dcu.ie Mohammad Sobhan Zare Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran s.zare@eng.ui.ac.ir Zahra Zojaji Department of software engineering, Faculty of Computer Engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran z.zojaji@eng.ui.ac.ir Amir Hossein Mohammadi Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran a.mohammadighahderijani@eng.ui.ac.ir Mohammad Ali Nematbakhsh Department of software engineering, Faculty of Computer Engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran Nematbakhsh@eng.ui.ac.ir Abstract— Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) models, which integrate large-scale pre-trained generative models with external retrieval mechanisms, have shown significant success in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, applying RAG models in Persian language as a low-resource language, poses distinct challenges. These challenges primarily involve the preprocessing, embedding, retrieval, prompt construction, language modeling, and response evaluation of the system. In this paper, we address the challenges towards implementing a real-world RAG system for Persian language called PersianRAG. We propose novel solutions to overcome these obstacles and evaluate our approach using several Persian benchmark datasets. Our experimental results demonstrate the capability of the PersianRAG framework to enhance question answering task in Persian. Keywords—Retrieval Augmented Generation, Large Language Models, , Persian, PersianRAG. I. INTRODUCTION In recent years, the field of NLP has witnessed significant advancements, especially in the development of LLMs capable of generating coherent and contextually relevant text. Despite their impressive capabilities, generative language models often tend to provide outdated information or fabricate facts a phenomenon commonly referred to as "Hallucination". This limitation persists even when models are aligned with human preferences through reinforcement learning [1] or style alignment techniques [1-4]. RAG systems have emerged as a promising solution to these challenges. By integrating the strengths of pre-trained models and retrieval mechanisms, RAG provides a powerful framework that enhances model performance and reduces errors in generated content [5]. Additionally, RAG enables the rapid deployment of applications tailored to specific organizations and domains without needing to update the underlying model's parameters, provided that relevant documents are available for retrieval. Several methods have been proposed to enhance LLMs through query-dependent retrieval [5-7]. A typical RAG process includes critical components such as embedding (semantic representation of documents and queries), retrieval (efficient access to relevant documents), and generation (producing responses based on retrieved information). Implementing RAG requires key decisions regarding document segmentation, selecting embedding models for semantic representation, choosing vector databases for efficient storage and retrieval, and optimizing large language models (refer to Figure 1). The inherent complexity at each stage of this process creates significant challenges in implementing RAG systems which are more highlighted in a low resource language like Persian. One approach involves using embedding models directly to calculate semantic similarities between queries and documents. These embedding models are often trained adversarially using positive and negative query-response pairs [8, 9]. The choice and combination of techniques at each stage profoundly affect the effectiveness and efficiency of RAG systems. Furthermore, according to the latest