retrieval models. Biencoder-SFT, trained with in-domain data sam- ples, leads to lower conformal generation risk in general compared with other retrieval models. OpenAI/ada, which is known of high quality and trained on large open corpus, also demonstrates low conformal generation risks. 7.3. Conformal generation risk under distribution shifts Soundness and tightness of conformal generation risk under distribution shifts In practice, user input text may deviate from the calibration distribution. In Thm. 2, we pro- vide the first conformal generation risk under distribution shifts for general bounded risk functions. We evaluate the conformal generation risk ˆα(ρ) in Eq. (8). To empirically verify the soundness, we create test sets with covariate shifts by varying sample weights. The Hellinger distance is com- puted using original and shifted sample weights, with details in Alg. 4 in App. J.3. We compare the conformal generation risk and empirical risks with Nrag = 15 using OpenAI/ada in Fig. 5, and using BM25, BAAI/bge and Biencoder-SFT in Figs. 11 to 13 in App. J.3. The results show that (1) our conformal generation risks under distribution shifts are sound and tight across various models, and (2) conformal generation risks increase linearly with Hellinger distance ρ, remaining non-trivial up to ρ = 0.2. Comparison of SOTA retrieval models under distribu- tion shifts We compare conformal generation risks for different retrieval models under distribution shifts in Fig. 14 in App. J.3. All models show a linear rise in risk with in- creasing Hellinger distance, with BiEncoder-SFT and Ope- nAI/ada showing lower risks at varying distances. 7.4. C-RAG with multi-dimensional RAG configurations So far, we demonstrate the effectiveness of retrieved in- context examples quantified by Nrag. To further improve the conformal generation risk, we can adjust the RAG configura- tions, such as the number of generations λg and the diversity- controlling similarity threshold λs. We follow RAG gener- ation protocol in Alg. 1 and define the risk function as the minimal risk among λg candidate generations. Our tests on AESLC, CommonGen, DART, and E2E datasets (see Fig. 6 and Fig. 15 in App. J.4) show that the multi-dimensional RAG configurations maintain sound and tight conformal 8 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Evaluation Risk AESLC Hellinger Distance ρ CommonGen Hellinger Distance ρ DART Hellinger Distance ρ E2E Hellinger Distance ρ Figure 5: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag(ρ) and empirical risks based on retrieval model OpenAI/ada under distribution shifts (Nrag = 15, λg = 1, λs = 1.0). We observe that our distribution-drift conformal generation risk (Thm. 2) is empirically valid and tight. AESLC CommonGen Figure 6: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risks with different λg and Nrag for OpenAI/ada. AESLC CommonGen Figure 7: Valid configurations ˆΛα given a desired risk level α and the empirical risks with different λg and Nrag for OpenAI/ada. generation risks. Notably, a higher Nrag reduces generation risks more effectively than adjusting λg. 7.5. Valid configurations given desired risk levels In risk guarantee (2) outlined in Sec. 4.3, given a desired risk level α, C-RAG computes