BDIE has two main sub-problems, Key Information Ex- traction (KIE) and Line Items Recognition (LIR) [1]. The goal of KIE is to extract and format information from the document into key-value pairs. And the goal of LIR is to extract information into a list of line items where each line item corresponds to a row in a table formatted into column key-value pairs. And unlike Table Structure Recognition, the order of the columns do not matter so long as the columns are mapped to the proper, predefined column keys [2]. To summarize and motivate RASG: the goal of BDIE is to transform a blob of information into a structured format to pass to downstream tools (i.e. APIs). We can teach machine learning models to use tools through supervised finetuning. We can then force them to output in the format we expect using structured generation. We can also teach sufficiently-powerful, pretrained models to use new tools on out-of-distribution datasets by taking advantage of in-context learning. Finally, to be able to use commercial LLMs ”out-of-the-box”, we can structure the text prompt to look like the original document through prompt engineering. II. RETRIEVAL AUGMENTED STRUCTURED GENERATION Retrieval Augmented Structured Generation (RASG) is composed of four components: (1) Retrieval Augmented Generation which allows us to teach LLMs to use new tools using In-Context Learning [3]; (2) Supervised Finetuning which enhances the correctness of the extracted outputs; (3) Structured Generation which ensures that the outputs are parse-able by downstream programs [4]; and (4) Structured Prompting which infuses layout information into the prompt [5]. All four components are necessary to beat strong multi- modal baselines on BDIE using an open-source 7B LLM, Hermes 2 Pro - Mistral 7B [6]. But only a subset are necessary when using GPT-3.5 [7]. A. Notes for Finetuning for Structured Generation The language model used must output both the right content and the right structure of said content. Finetuning significantly helps with the former, less so with the latter. To ensure that the output is parseable by downstream systems, we need to zero the probabilities of invalid tokens. This is where structured generation works. Based on our experiments, we found that naively combining finetuning and structured generation leads to poor results. There are two main issues: 1. Schema vs. model mismatch: Regex-based al- gorithms for structured generation, such as Outlines’ outlines.generate.json module, implicitly impose a strict key ordering [4] [8]. E.g., suppose that we have a schema where the key "amount" comes before "currency". Then, Outlines will mask the logits for "currency" until "amount" is generated. However, if the model was finetuned to generate "currency" before "amount", the prediction arXiv:2405.20245v1 [cs.CL] 30 May 2024 Fig. 1. Retrieval Augmented Structured Generation (RASG). We model Business Document Information Extraction as a Tool Use problem with downstream APIs as the tools. We then combine Retrieval Augmented Generation, Supervised Finetuning, & Structured Generation, techniques that improve tool use capabilities of ML models, with Structured Prompting to beat strong multimodal models using only LLMs. This allows