for automation in various phases of the review process, highlighting the need for a holistic tool de- sign to address researchers’ challenges effectively. They have discussed two methodologies to accomplish their research: Rapid Review and Semi-Structured Interviews. Rapid Review emphasizes decision-making procedures for resolving issues, difficulties, and challenges that software engineers encounter in their daily work. Semi-structured interviews are used to explore researchers’ experiences, challenges, strategies, strengths, weaknesses of Systematic Literature Review tools, and requirements for effective support in software engineering. Jaspers et al. [9] focused on the use of machine learning techniques for automation of literature reviews and systematic reviews. They have outlined the pros and cons of different machine-learning techniques. The process of automating the literature review was elaborately discussed. The paper lacks practical validation across diverse domains and detailed in- sights. A concise overview of automated literature reviews was presented by Tauchert et. al. [10] They have emphasized the potential for automation in various stages of the systematic review process. The paper discusses the importance of in- tegrating computational techniques to streamline tasks such as searching, screening, extraction, and synthesis. It also ac- knowledges the need for further research to address challenges and enhance the effectiveness of automated approaches. A brief overview on the topic of automatic literature review tools was given by Tsai et. al. [11] They discussed the existing research in the field, the challenges faced in conduct- ing literature reviews manually, and the potential benefits of automating the process. The main focus of their contributions is the evaluation of Mistral LLM’s effectiveness in the field of Academic Research. The gaps in the intersection of systematic literature reviews (SLRs) and LLMs are discussed by Susnjak et. al. [12]. They also emphasized the need to address challenges in the synthesis phase of research and highlighted the potential of fine-tuning LLMs with datasets to enhance knowledge synthesis accuracy. The study aims to bridge this gap by proposing a Systematic Literature Review automation framework. Most of the related works that have been discussed are mainly focused on discussing the potential and challenges of using NLP techniques and LLMs to automate the literature review process. None of them proposes a complete system pipeline where users can directly generate the literature re- view only using the PDF and DOI. In contrast, this article proposes and implements three unique end-to-end pipelines and procedures for a literature review automation system. This research endeavor has also resulted in the implementation of a UI tool where users can directly upload PDFs and get a literature review segment generated automatically without any additional effort. Moreover, this paper also includes a comparative analysis of different approaches such as the frequency-based approach, transformer-based approach, and rag-based approach using ROUGE scores which contributes towards finding the effectiveness of these approaches for this task. III. SYSTEM DESIGN The research is carried out in four stages: 1. Defining research objectives. 2. Proposing multiple procedures for au- tomated literature review generation. 3. Evaluating multiple procedures to find the best approach. 4.