change the tense of verbs, or represent pro- nouns and prepositions in nouns. It is a building block for NLP tasks such as search, part-of-speech tagging, parsing, and machine translation. The idea is segmenting Arabic words into prefixes, stems, and suffixes, which can facilitate many other tasks. Datasets WikiNews For modern standard Arabic (MSA), we used the WikiNews dataset of (Darwish and Mubarak, 2016) which comprises 70 news articles in politics, economics, health, science and technol- ogy, sports, arts, and culture. The dataset has 400 sentences (18,271 words) in total. Tweets For the dialectal Arabic, we used the dataset reported in (Samih et al., 2017), which pro- vides 1400 tweets in Egyptian, Gulf, Levantine, and Maghrebi dialects for a total of 25,708 annotated words . A.1.2 Part-Of-Speech (POS) Tagging Part-of-speech (POS) is one of the fundamental components in the NLP pipeline. It helps in ex- tracting higher-level information such as named entities, discourse, and syntactic parsing. Datasets WikiNews We used for this task the WikiNews dataset tagged for POS (Darwish et al., 2017c) for modern standard Arabic. Tweets For POS tagging with noisy texts and different dialects we used the same dataset reported in (Samih et al., 2017) (see §A.1.1). 12https://www.2022.aclweb.org/callpapers XGLUE We also used the Arabic part of XGLUE benchmark (Liang et al., 2020) for POS tagging, which uses a subset of Universal Dependencies Treebanks (v2.5) (Zeman et al., 2020). A.1.3 Lemmatization Lemmatization is another component in the NLP pipeline, which reduces words to their base or root form, known as a lemma. It takes into considera- tion the morphological analysis of the words, which uses the context and POS to convert a word to its simplest form. This task differs from segmentation which only separates a word stem from prefixes and suffixes. In contrast, lemmatization requires re- turning the lexicon entry for a certain word, which may depend on POS tagging. Dataset We used WikiNews dataset tagged for lemmas (Mubarak, 2018) (see §A.1.1 for the de- tails of the dataset). A.1.4 Diacritization Diacritization involves assigning the diacritics to each letter in an Arabic word within a sentence. Diacritical marks indicate the correct pronuncia- tion and meaning of the written Arabic words. For example, different word diacretizations could trans- form a noun into a verb or vice versa. Datasets WikiNews We use a dataset of Modern Standard Arabic from (Mubarak et al., 2019) that comprises fully diacritized WikiNews corpus (Darwish et al., 2017b). Bibles This dataset includes translations of the New Testament into two Maghrebi sub-dialects: Moroccan and Tunisian (Darwish et al., 2018; Ab- delali et al., 2019). A.1.5 Parsing Dependency parsing is the task of identifying syn- tactical and grammatical relations among the words in a sentence. These dependencies result in a hierar- chical tree representation that captures the structure of the sentence at different levels. Dataset For this task we used the Arabic part of CoNLL-X 2006 shared tasks on dependency parsing (Buchholz and Marsi, 2006), which has 4,990 scoring tokens and uses the Prague Arabic Dependency