So the answer is no. Question: Who is Boraqchin (Wife Of Ögedei)’s father-in-law? Answer: Boraqchin is married to Ögedei Khan. Ögedei Khan’s father is Genghis Khan. Thus, Boraqchin’s father-in-law is Genghis Khan. So the answer is Genghis Khan. Question: Who was born first out of Martin Hodge and Ivania Martinich? Answer: Martin Hodge was born on 4 February 1959. Ivania Martinich was born on 25 July 1995. Thus, Martin Hodge was born first. So the answer is Martin Hodge. Question: When did the director of film Laughter In Hell die? Answer: The film Laughter In Hell was directed by Edward L. Cahn. Edward L. Cahn died on August 25, 1963. So the answer is August 25, 1963. Context: [1] film was shot between May 6 and 18 June 2008 in locations of Warsaw, Wejherowo, Sopot and Gdynia outskirts. The film premiered on May 22, 2009. The budget of Polish-Russian War amounted to approx. 4 million zlotys. The creators of the music for the film are Jan Komar, Filip Kuncewicz, Liroy, Mateusz Łapot and Jarosław Karczmarczyk. The soundtrack also included the following songs: Polish-Russian War (film) Polish-Russian War (Wojna polsko-ruska) is a 2009 Polish film directed by Xawery ˙Zuławski based on the novel Polish-Russian War under the white-red flag by Dorota Masłowska. [2] Pharaoh (film) Pharaoh () is a 1966 Polish film directed by Jerzy Kawalerowicz and adapted from the eponymous novel by the Polish writer Bolesław Prus. In 1967 it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. It was also entered into the 1966 Cannes Film Festival. Jerzy Kawalerowicz, who had previously directed such films as "Cellulose" (1953), "Under the Phrygian Star" (1954), "The Shade" (1956), "The Real End of the Great War" (1957), "Night Train" (1959) and "Mother Joan of the Angels" (1961) [3] Polish-Russian War (film) Polish-Russian War (Wojna polsko-ruska) is a 2009 Polish film directed by Xawery ˙Zuławski based on the novel Polish-Russian War under the white-red flag by Dorota Masłowska. The film’s events take place over several days and they are set in the present time in a large Polish city. The main character is a bandit, a Polish dres (a Polish chav) called "Strong" (Borys Szyc), who does not work or study, and who frequently gets into conflict with the law and is in love with Magda (Roma G ˛asiorowska). The relationship is not going well. Answer in the same format as before. Question: Who is the mother of the director of film Polish-Russian War (Film)? Prompt 3: exemplars of HotpotQA Direct Question: Jeremy Theobald and Christopher Nolan share what profession? Answer: Jeremy Theobald is an actor and producer. Christopher Nolan is a director, producer, and screenwriter. Therefore, they both share the profession of being a producer. So the answer is producer. Question: What film directed by Brian Patrick Butler was inspired by a film directed by F.W. Murnau? Answer: Brian Patrick Butler directed the film The Phantom Hour. The Phantom Hour was inspired by the films such as Nosferatu and