several cases hurt it. Although depthwise convolutions have been used for Transformers before [41, 42], using them after each dense head projection has not been done to the best of our knowledge. MDHA is similar to Convolutional Attention [43], which uses separable convolution instead of depthwise convolution and does not apply convolution operations per attention head as we do. Other Modiﬁcations: The other Primer modiﬁcations are less effective. Graphs for each modiﬁca- tion can be found in Appendix A.5 and an ablation study can be found in Appendix A.7. We brieﬂy describe the modiﬁcations and their usefulnesses here: • Shared Q and K Depthwise Representation: Primer shares some weight matrices for Q and K. K is created using the previously described MDHA projection and Q = KW for learnable weight matrix W ∈Rd×d. We ﬁnd that this generally hurts performance. • Pre and Post Normalization: The standard practice for Transformers has become putting normalization before both the self-attention and feed forward transformations [44, 45]. Primer uses normalization before self-attention but applies the second normalization after the feed forward transformation. We ﬁnd this is helpful in some but not all cases. • Custom Normalization: Primer uses a modiﬁed version of layer normalization [46] that uses x(x −µ) instead of (x −µ)2, but we ﬁnd this is not always effective. • 12X Bottleneck Projection: The discovered model uses a smaller dmodel size of 384 (compared to the baseline’s 512) and a larger dff size of 4608 (compared to the baseline’s 2048). We ﬁnd this larger projection improves results dramatically at smaller sizes (∼35M parameters), but is less effective for larger models, as has been previously noted [9]. For this reason we do not include this modiﬁcation when referencing Primer or Primer-EZ. • Post-Softmax Spatial Gating: The discovered model has a set of per-channel learnable scalars after the attention softmax, which improves perplexity for ﬁxed length sequences. However, these scalars cannot be applied to variable sequence lengths and so we do not include this modiﬁcation in Primer for our experiments. • Extraneous Modiﬁcations: There are a handful of additional modiﬁcations that produce no meaningful difference in the discovered architecture. For example, hidden states being multiplied by -1.12. Verifying that these modiﬁcations neither help nor hurt quality, we exclude them from discussion in the main text and do not include them when experimenting with Primer. These extraneous modiﬁcations can still be found in Appendix A.5. 4 Results In our experiments, we compare Primer against three Transformer variants: • Vanilla Transformer: The original Transformer [1] with ReLU activations and layer normaliza- tion [46] outside of the residual path. • Transformer+GELU: A commonly used variant of the vanilla Transformer that uses a GELU [40] approximation activation function [2, 7]. • Transformer++: A Transformer with the following enhancements: RMS normalization [47], Swish activation [48] and a GLU multiplicative branch [38] in the feed forward inverted bottleneck (SwiGLU) [39]. These modiﬁcations were benchmarked and shown to be effective in T5 [49]. We conduct our comparisons across three different