part of the RAG system S. Most real-world systems that deploy user-facing LLMs rely on guardrails [10] to detect and avoid potentially malicious queries. One such technique that also happens to benefit RAG systems [3, 28, 31, 35, 50] is “query rewriting", where the given query 𝑞is transformed before being passed on to the RAG system. Query rewriting is helpful in dealing with ambiguous queries, correcting typographical errors, providing supplementary information, in addition its utility in circumventing some adversarial prompts [19]. ˆ𝑞= rewrite(𝑞). (1) For the transformed query ˆ𝑞, the retriever 𝑅begins by producing an embedding for ˆ𝑞and based on some similarity function (typically cosine similarity), fetching the 𝑘most relevant documents 𝐷𝑘= arg top-𝑘𝑑∈Dsim( ˆ𝑞,𝑑), (2) where sim() represents the similarity function, and arg top-𝑘se- lects the top-𝑘documents with the highest similarity scores. The generator G then generates an output based on the contextual information from the retrieved documents [23]: 𝑦= G(ins( ˆ𝑞, 𝐷𝑘)), (3) where ins(𝑞, 𝐷𝑘) represents the query and context wrapped in a system instruction for the generative model. An end user only gets to submit query 𝑞to the RAG system S and observe the response 𝑦directly in the form of generated text. 2.2 Membership Inference in ML Membership inference attacks (MIAs) in machine learning seek to determine whether a specific data point 𝑥∗is part of a dataset involved in the ML pipeline, such as training [4, 36, 44, 46, 52] or fine-tuning data [16, 33]. Formally, given access to a model M, an adversary constructs an inference function A that outputs: A(𝑥∗, M) ∈{1, 0}, 2 where 1 indicates that 𝑥∗is a member of the dataset, and 0 indicates otherwise. Such attacks have been explored across a broad spectrum of models—including traditional ML architectures [46], LLMs [13], and diffusion models [12]—by exploiting behavioral discrepancies between data seen during training (members) and unseen data (non- members). For instance, many ML models assign higher confidence scores to member data points [46]. MIAs have shown varying degrees of success across different domains, including images and tabular data [4, 46, 47, 55]. However, these successes predominantly rely on parametric outputs (e.g., con- fidence scores, perplexity, or loss values). Such outputs are often inaccessible in RAG systems. Moreover, RAG responses are dynam- ically generated based on content retrieved from external corpora rather than solely from the model’s internal parameters. Thus, previous methods that depend on parametric signals are largely inapplicable. More importantly, the target of MIA in RAG systems specifically relates to whether external documents are retrieved dur- ing inference, rather than inferring knowledge from data seen during training or fine-tuning, rendering existing threat models unsuitable. In addition, earlier conclusions about MIAs may not extend to RAG systems. For example, critical analyses suggest that MIAs are typically ineffective for LLMs [13, 34], with effectiveness potentially increasing only when analyzing entire documents or datasets [32, 41]. However, even though RAG relies on an LLM for generating responses, these limitations do not extend to RAG systems, where exact documents are fetched and integrated