All You Can Embed: Natural Language based Vehicle Retrieval with Spatio-Temporal Transformers Carmelo Scribano†*, Davide Sapienza†*, Giorgia Franchini†‡, Micaela Verucchi†, and Marko Bertogna† †University of Modena and Reggio Emilia ‡University of Ferrara *University of Parma {name.surname}@unimore.it Abstract Combining Natural Language with Vision represents a unique and interesting challenge in the domain of Artiﬁ- cial Intelligence. The AI City Challenge Track 5 for Natu- ral Language-Based Vehicle Retrieval focuses on the prob- lem of combining visual and textual information, applied to a smart-city use case. In this paper, we present All You Can Embed (AYCE), a modular solution to correlate single- vehicle tracking sequences with natural language. The main building blocks of the proposed architecture are (i) BERT to provide an embedding of the textual descriptions, (ii) a convolutional backbone along with a Transformer model to embed the visual information. For the training of the re- trieval model, a variation of the Triplet Margin Loss is pro- posed to learn a distance measure between the visual and language embeddings. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/cscribano/AYCE_2021. 1. Introduction Vision and Natural Language (NL) understanding is a relevant and challenging problem in computer vision. Re- cently, researchers have been focusing on binding video and NL to deal with tasks such as video captioning, action seg- mentation, video question answering, or text-based video retrieval. In this paper, we focus on a smart-city-speciﬁc variation of the latter problem, i.e. the NL-based vehicle re- trieval, introduced by Feng, Ablavsky, and Sclaroff [7] for the AI City Challenge Track 51. The task under analysis combines the need for spatio-temporal coherence with the need to correlate video and NL, and is therefore non-trivial. However, solving the problem would allow retrieving traf- ﬁc patterns or speciﬁc vehicle-related events just by typing a sentence in a camera system, a convenient and useful fea- ture for people involved in urban planning, trafﬁc engineer- ing, or law enforcement. Inspired by other works that combine NL with im- 1https://www.aicitychallenge.org/2021-challenge-tracks/ (a) “A white pick up truck drives down the street and passes another truck.”, “A white pickup truck going straight down the street with cars parking on the side.”, “A white pickup runs on the street.” Figure 1: A sample from the CityFlow-NL dataset. ages [11] or video [26, 26, 34, 16, 15, 13, 12], we devel- oped All You Can Embed (AYCE), an NL-based vehicle retrieval system for a target object. Our approach builds on the popular BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representa- tions from Transformers) model [5] to handle NL Process- ing (NLP). Besides, we use two other Transformers to en- code the visual features: a ﬁrst one to embed the spatial information of a single frame, and a second one to embed the temporal information throughout all the frames of the video sequence. The architecture has been tested on the CityFlow-NL [7] dataset; Figure 1 depicts a sample out of its 2.5k sequences. Our contributions are summarized as follows: 1. We introduce a stacked spatio-temporal Transformer Encoder to embed the frame-level spatial