each generated paragraph pi, we iterate to calculate the similarity between pi and each paragraph from the gold standard g s p, aggregating the minimum distance scores as the similarity score of pi. scorepi = max (1 −dist(pi, g s pj)) , j = 0, 1, ... (9) para score = 1 −|len(p) −len(g s p)| MAX(len(p), len(g s p)) × |p| X i=0 (scorepi) (10) For table evaluation, we follow a two-step process. Since different procurement content requires distinct parameters, we initially assess the similarity of the field name lists between table from generated document t and table from gold standard g s t. Subsequently, building upon this comparison, we calculate the similarity of the table contents on a per-entry basis. table scoreti = Avg( |field| X (1 −distfield), list dist) (11) table score = P|t| i=0 table scoreti len(t) (12) score = len(p) × para score + len(t) × table score len(p) + len(t) (13) C. Comparison with Baselines We randomly selected dozens of documents from the tender document repository to analyze and evaluate using our framework. The framework includes both the template retrieval module and the modification module, integrated with a procurement knowledge base, all utilizing a foundational base model. We have chosen ChatGLM-4 as the primary base model. In comparison, we are using ChatGLM-4 as the baseline alongside the incorporation of several modules that we have proposed separately. When using a basic large language model, the generated content may seem too arbitrary without a structured template like a bidding document. Additionally, there might be a lack of organization when it comes to processing and generating form data. While template-driven language models usually yield more coherent results, the style and format of the documents they produce can still deviate significantly from standard procurement files. TABLE III PERFORMANCE ON TENDER DOCUMENT DATASET Method paragraph score table score score our framework 78.31 76.15 77.74 ChatGLM-4 12.55 0 12.55 ChatGLM-4 with retrieval module 38.27 15.23 29.42 D. Ablations To demonstrate the impact of the proposed mechanisms, we dismantled elements of our framework to assess their individual contributions to the overall performance. By isolating and analyzing the Template Retrieval and Template Filling modules separately, we were able to gain insights into their specific effects on the paragraph and table scores. The results underscored the importance of each module in enhancing the overall score and highlighted the synergistic relationship between them within our framework. When we randomly select a template from the tender document corpus to assess the impact of removing the template retrieval module, we observe a significant decrease in both paragraph and table scores by several percentage points. The template filling module plays a crucial role in aligning the retrieved template with the given new requirements, with its impact on the score being relatively more significant compared to the template retrieval module. TABLE IV PERFORMANCE WHEN REMOVE SOME COMPONENTS OF OUR MODEL. r.m. STRANDS FOR REMOVE. r.p. STANDS FOR REPLACED WITH. Ablation Models paragraph score table score score Our Framework