the input and output embedding matrices themselves, as well as input preprocessing and weight optimization are not within the scope of our programs. Subprogram Bank Subprogram 0 (Main) Subprogram 1 Subprogram 2 Subprogram N ... CONV 1X1: tf.layers.dense MAX: tf.math.maximum SIN: tf.math.sin tf.layers.dense(inputs=hidden_state_0, units=512) Operation: CONV 1X1 Function Arguments: - Input 1: h0 - Input 2: h1 - Constant: 0.781 - Hidden Dimension: 512 Instruction 1 Instruction 2 Instruction N Subprogram DNA (Model) ... Instruction TF Primitives Vocab Generated TF Code Instruction functions come from primitives vocab or subprogram bank. Figure 1: Overview of DNAs that deﬁne a decoder model program (i.e., an auto-regressive language model). Each DNA has a collection of subprograms, where SUBPROGRAM 0 is the MAIN() function entry point. Each subprogram is comprised of instructions, which are converted to lines of TensorFlow code. Instruction operations map to either basic TensorFlow library functions from the primitives vocabulary or one of the parent DNA’s subprograms. The operation’s arguments are ﬁlled using the parent instruction’s argument set, which contains values for all potential operation arguments; arguments that are not used by a particular operation are simply ignored. 2 Figure 1 shows how programs are constructed in our search space. Each program is built from an evo- lutionary search DNA, which is an indexed collection of subprograms. SUBPROGRAM 0 is the MAIN() function that is the execution entry point, and the other subprograms are part of the DNA’s subprogram bank. Each subprogram is an indexed array of instructions with no length constraints. An instruction is an operation with a set of input arguments. The operation denotes the function that the instruction executes. Each operation maps to either a TF function from the primitives vocabulary or another sub- program in the DNA subprogram bank. The primitives vocabulary is comprised of simple primitive TF functions, such as ADD, LOG, and MATMUL (see Appendix A.1 for details). It is worth empha- sizing that high-level building blocks such as self-attention are not operations in the search space, but can be constructed from our low-level operations. The DNA’s subprogram bank is comprised of additional programs that can be executed as functions by instructions. Each subprogram can only call subprograms with a higher index in the subprogram bank, which removes the possibility of cycles. Each instruction’s argument set contains a list of potential argument values for each instruction operation. The set of argument ﬁelds represents the union of ﬁelds that all the operation primitives use: • Input 1: The index of the hidden state that will be used as the ﬁrst tensor input. The index of each hidden state is the index of the instruction that produced it, with the subprogram’s input states at indexes 0 and 1. An example of an operation that uses this is SIN. • Input 2: The index of the second tensor input. This is only used by operations that are binary with respect to tensor inputs. An example of an operation that uses this is ADD. • Constant: A real valued