Fernando Fernan Gomez was born on 28 August 1921. Follow up: When was Charles Saunders (director) born? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Charles Saunders was born on 8 April 1904. So the final answer is: El Extrano Viaje Table 14: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on 2WikiMultiHopQA. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # {Knowledge} Question: Which film came out first, Blind Shaft or The Mask Of Fu Manchu? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: When did Blind Shaft come out? Intermediate answer: Blind Shaft came out in 2003. Follow up: When did The Mask Of Fu Manchu come out? Intermediate answer: The Mask Of Fu Manchu came out in 1932. So the final answer is: The Mask Of Fu Manchu # {Knowledge} Question: When did John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst’s father die? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the father of John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst? Intermediate answer: The father of John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst is Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau. Follow up: When did Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau die? Intermediate answer: Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau died on 12 June 1516. So the final answer is: 12 June 1516 # {Knowledge} Question: Which film has the director who was born later, El Extrano Viaje or Love In Pawn? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the director of El Extrano Viaje? Intermediate answer: The director of El Extrano Viaje is Fernando Fernan Gomez. Follow up: Who is the director of Love in Pawn? Intermediate answer: The director of Love in Pawn is Charles Saunders. Follow up: When was Fernando Fernan Gomez born? Intermediate answer: Fernando Fernan Gomez was born on 28 August 1921. Follow up: When was Charles Saunders (director) born? Intermediate answer: Charles Saunders was born on 8 April 1904. So the final answer is: El Extrano Viaje Table 15: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Self-Ask on 2WikiMultiHopQA. {Knowledge} Question: Which film came out first, Blind Shaft or The Mask Of Fu Manchu? Let’s think step by step. Blind Shaft is a 2003 film, while The Mask Of Fu Manchu opened in New York on December 2, 1932. 2003 comes after 1932. Therefore, The Mask Of Fu Manchu came out earlier than Blind Shaft. So the answer is The Mask Of Fu Manchu {Knowledge} Question: When did John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst’s father die? Let’s think step by step. John was the second son of Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau. Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau died on 12 June 1516. So the answer is 12 June 1516 {Knowledge} Question: Which film has the director who was born later, El Extrano Viaje or Love In Pawn? Let’s think step by step. The director of El Extrano Viaje is Fernando Fernan