and the feed-forward submodule, each followed by dropout with p = 0.1, a ReLU activation function, and Add & Layer Norm. The bottleneck dimension in the linear sub- module is also kept to the original value 2048. The ﬁrst Encoder module, namely the Spatial Encoder, takes as input the complete visual input vi, including the visual embedding produced by the CNN backbone. Before- hand, a single linear layer is applied to reduce the embed- ding dimensionality from 261 (or 5 + 256) to 256. This is required to have a size divisible by the number of MHSA Heads. Given the input tensor (Bs, M, O′, 256) where Bs is the mini-batch size, the Spatial Encoder threats the num- ber of frames (or timesteps) M as an additional batch di- mension. The information of the object embeddings is in- stead combined using the scaled dot-product Attention op- erations, carefully masking padded elements to avoid at- tending to padding values. Given that the Encoder’s output is a tensor similar to the input, the mean between the O′ embeddings is computed to produce a single embedding for each of the M timesteps. The subsequent Temporal Encoder takes as input the output of the previous one and operates almost in an iden- tical way. The main difference is the deﬁnition of the Posi- tional Encoding: being M a subset of a potentially signiﬁ- cantly larger set (recalling that the longest sequence count 3620 frames, when M is capped to 80), we use the indices of the sampled timesteps as input to the positional encod- ing, instead of the canonical sequence of incremental inte- gers (0, 1, ..., M −1). Using this sampling-aware encoding we aim to make our AYCE model slightly more robust to information loss due to subsampling, as well as improving the overall generalization properties. Visual Single-Output (VSO) We initially experimented with the simplest approach of producing a single embed- ding vector for the whole visual sequence (not depicted in Figure 3), even though the NL branch might provide three different embeddings. The single embedding vector is ob- tained by applying a mean operator over the M output of the Temporal Encoder’s output. Visual Triple-Output (VTO) Instead, to obtain three em- bedding vectors for the same visual input, we introduce an additional Transformer Decoder block which takes as input a set of NL-queries. Similarly to the object-queries pro- posed by Carion et al. [1], NL-queries are just a sequence of ﬁxed length (equals to 3), only consisting in the corre- sponding positional encoding. The output of the Tempo- ral Encoder is fed as encoder output to the inner Encoder- Decoder Attention modules of each decoder block. The out- put V i of the last decoder’s block is a (3, 256)-shaped em- bedding vector. For the VTO approach, we use the notation V i j to indicate the j-th row of V i. Together with a careful redesign of the loss function, this second approach outperformed the for- mer one. 4.2. Natural Language