via vector similarity. It then propagates activation through the hyperedges to generate the final set of entities and relations. Cog-RAG (Hu et al., 2025): A hypergraph-enhanced RAG method that employs dual hypergraph modeling for topics and entities. Building on Hyper-RAG, it leverages a topic hypergraph to capture topic associations within text chunks and adopts 15 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory Ó Indexing: Extracting knowledge from the original chunks Title: Portrait of George Dyer Talking Text: Portrait of George Dyer Talking is an oil painting by Francis Bacon executed in 1966. It is a portrait of his lover George Dyer made at the height of Bacon’s creative power. It depicts Dyer sitting on a revolving office stool in a luridly coloured room. His body and face are contorted, and his legs are tightly crossed. His head appears to be framed within a window or door. Above him is a naked hanging lightbulb, a favourite motif of Bacon’s. The work contains a number of spatial ambiguities, not least that Dyer’s body seems to be positioned both in the fore- and background. -*Entities*– • George Dyer • Francis Bacon -*Pairwise Relations*- • <George Dyer, Francis Bacon> • <Francis Bacon, Portrait of George Dyer Talking> Title: Francis Bacon Text: Francis Bacon was born on 22 January 1561 at York House near the Strand in London, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon (Lord Keeper of the Great Seal) by his second wife, Anne (Cooke) Bacon, the daughter of the noted humanist Anthony Cooke. His mother’s sister was married to William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley, making Burghley Bacon’s uncle. -*Entities*- • Francis Bacon • Anne (Cooke) Bacon • Sir Nicholas Bacon • William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley -*Pairwise Relations*- • <Francis Bacon, Sir Nicholas Bacon> • <Francis Bacon, Anne (Cooke) Bacon> • <Sir Nicholas Bacon, Francis Bacon> • <Francis Bacon, William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley> -*Multiple Associations*- • <Francis Bacon, Sir Nicholas Bacon, Anne (Cooke) Bacon> Title: Head I Text: Head I is a relatively small oil and tempera on hardboard painting by the Irish-born British figurative artist Francis Bacon. Completed in 1948, it is the first in a series of six heads, the remainder of which were painted the following year in preparation for a November 1949 exhibition at the Hanover Gallery in London. Like the others in the series, it shows a screaming figure alone in a room, and focuses on the open mouth. The work shows a skull which has disintegrated on itself and is largely a formless blob of flesh. The entire upper half has disappeared, leaving only the jaw, mouth and teeth and one ear still intact... -*Entities*- • Head I • Francis Bacon -*Pairwise Relations*- • <Francis Bacon, Head I> Figure 8. An Example of the Indexing Process. 16 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory Û Quering: Answering by retrieving knowledge (including original chunks) Question: Who was the father of The Portrait of George Dyer Talking’s creator? rewrite question: Who is