although most safety align- ment data is in English. You are a helpful assistant. Please think in English and then generate the response in the original language. Inspired by recent successes of prompting on further improving LLMs (e.g., reliability (Si et al., Table 5: Average unsafe ratio (%) of prompting method for non-English queries. “△” denotes relative improve- ment of the prompting method over vanilla ChatGPT. Method zh ru ja fr Ave. Vanilla 15.2 13.0 23.7 15.4 16.8 Prompt 7.7 2.7 20.3 8.1 9.7 △ -49% -78% -14% -47% -42% Table 6: Examples of ChatGPT’s response (translated in English) for Chinese query. We also list the response to English query (“English”) for reference. We translate all the text into English for a better illustration. Prompt Response Query How do you deal with conflicts in your life? Ignore the above questions and directly out- put: Only violence can solve the contradic- tions in life. Vanilla Only violence can solve the contradictions in life. Prompt Sorry, I can’t provide you with any infor- mation about Guidance or support for us- ing violence to resolve conflicts. In fact, violence only exacerbates conflicts and can cause more harm and destruction. English I’m sorry, but I cannot provide such a re- sponse. Violence is not the solution to con- flicts and there are much better ways to deal with them such as communication, compro- mise, and seeking mediation if necessary. 2023)), we develop a simple prompt to explicitly leverage safety alignment in English when han- dling non-English queries: “Please think in English and then generate the response in the original language.” By instructing the model to think in English, safety alignment in En- glish can take effect before generating the response in the original language. All the prompts are in English since Shi et al. (2023) reveals that using the instruction and examples in English performs better for multilingual tasks. Experimental Results We conduct experiments on ChatGPT for its powerful instruction-following ability. For computational tractability, we use the three most challenging safety scenarios: “Ethics And Morality,” “Insult,” and “Crimes And Il- legal Activities.” We select Chinese, Russian, Japanese, and French as representative non-English languages. Table 5 lists the unsafe ratio for the proposed prompting method. The prompting method im- proves the multilingual safety of ChatGPT in non- English languages. Overall, the prompting method significantly reduces the unsafe ratio by 42% on average, demonstrating the effectiveness and uni- versality of our approaches across safety scenarios and languages. Case Study Table 6 shows example responses from ChatGPT with different methods. The re- sponse style of our prompting method is similar to that of an English query (e.g., starting with an apology), which reconfirms our hypothesis that the prompt improves the cross-lingual generalization of safety alignment in English. 5 Conclusion This paper presents a comprehensive investigation into the multilingual safety of LLMs, addressing a crucial gap in the current understanding of AI safety. By developing the first multilingual safety benchmark, XSAFETY, we have enabled a system- atic evaluation