queries in the form of natural questions, and uses the correctness of the generated responses as a signal for membership inference test. Probe Question. Next, we generate a set of questions that are highly aligned with the content of 𝑑∗. Drawing inspiration from doc2query tasks in the IR literature, we adopt a few-shot prompting strategy [8] that instructs an LLM to create natural, information- seeking queries based on 𝑑∗. By default, these questions follow a yes/no structure, which simplifies validation and aggregation in later stages. This process yields a set of candidate Probe Questions: P = {𝑝1, 𝑝2, . . . , 𝑝𝑛}. The exact prompt used, along with further examples, is detailed in the Appendix (Figure 14). Combining Summaries and Questions. Finally, we concatenate each probe question 𝑝𝑖with the single Retrieval Summary 𝑠∗to form the final query set 𝑄= {𝑞1, . . . ,𝑞𝑛}, with 𝑞𝑖= 𝑠∗∥𝑝𝑖, (4) This two-part structure fulfills both retrieval and membership in- ference objectives simultaneously. An example of our generated queries is shown in Figure 3. 5.2 Ground Truth Answer Generation After obtaining our queries, 𝑄= {𝑞1, . . . ,𝑞𝑛}, we generate their corresponding ground truth answers using a shadow LLM. Con- cretely, we provide the text of the target document 𝑑∗as a reference, prompting this LLM to produce accurate answers for each query 𝑞𝑖. Since the questions are framed in a way that elicits binary re- sponses, extracting answers from LLM outputs is straightforward. Let 𝐺= {𝑔1,𝑔2, . . . ,𝑔𝑛} denote the resulting ground truth answers. These answers serve as baselines for evaluating the correctness of the RAG system’s responses and, ultimately, for deriving member- ship signals. 5.3 Membership Inference We submit the queries 𝑄to the RAG system by issuing standard inference requests through its interface. Note that the RAG system may rewrite these queries, which the adversary has no control over. Let 𝑅= {𝑟1,𝑟2, . . . ,𝑟𝑛} represent the set of responses returned by the RAG system. If the target document 𝑑∗is part of the knowledge base, a good retriever would fetch it for these highly specific and relevant queries, resulting in more accurate answers. To infer membership, we compare the RAG system’s responses 𝑅= {𝑟1, . . . ,𝑟𝑛} with the corresponding ground truth answers 𝐺= {𝑔1, . . . ,𝑔𝑛} derived from the shadow LLM. A final member- ship score is then calculated by aggregating the correctness of the responses. Specifically, as described in Section 5.1, each query is a yes/no question, and correctness is assessed by comparing the RAG system’s response to the ground truth. In our initial explorations, we notice that RAG systems often resort to responding with "I don’t know" or similarly vague expres- sions to some questions, especially under the absence of 𝑑∗. This is arguably a stronger signal for the lack of membership than simply giving incorrect answers, as the model is unlikely to contain the target document or any other relevant documents in its context when it is unable to answer