to obtain expla- nations regarding the reasoning process the LLM follows when selecting an answer. All resulting QA prompts (Tab. 2) are provided to GPT-3.5-turbo. 3 Experimental results The VWSD dataset is comprised of 12869 training samples and 463 test samples; each sample con- tains 10 images (Appendix A). All our approaches are evaluated on the VWSD test split using Accu- racy and Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) metrics. LLMs for phrase enhancement In Tab. 3, we present results regarding LLM-based phrase en- hancement involving all VL retrieval models (with and without penalty p(i)). Baselines refer to VL retrieval with non-enhanced phrases t. Additional quantitative results including more LLMs, as well as qualitative examples of how knowledge enhance- ment benefits disambiguation and thus retrieval are provided in Appendix C. We can easily observe that different prompts contribute towards better re- sults per LLM, while BLIP-LF is the most success- ful VL retriever; however, ALIGN (with penalty) achieves top performance, together with GPT-3 and "meaning_of" as the prompt. In general, large scale LLMs (GPT-3, GPT-3.5-turbo) are able to clearly surpass the respective non-enhanced baselines in most cases. Interestingly, for smaller LLMs (up to 6.7B pa- rameters), scaling-up does not necessarily imply advanced performance: OPT-6.7B (Tab. 12) and Galactica-6.7B (Tab. 13) fall below their smaller BLOOMZ-3B competitor when the same prompts are used. Nevertheless, contrary to GPT-3 and GPT- 3.5-turbo, the phrase enhancement that few-billion parameter LLMs can offer in total is only marginal in the best case, and sometimes even fail to compete against their non-enhanced baselines, indicating that they do not contain the necessary knowledge to enrich rare target words with respect to their given context. Therefore, our LLM-enhancement analysis reveals that the necessary enrichment for VWSD may be only achieved when employing large-scale LLMs, most probably being on par with other emergent LLM abilities (Wei et al., 2023). Image captioning In Tab. 4 we present results on text retrieval between extracted image captions ci and given phrases t, which are achieved us- Prompt name QA Prompt template think (greedy) “Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the <context>? Answer choices: (A) <caption for image 1> (B) <caption for image 2> ... A: Let’s think step by step. ” think (beam) “Q: What is the most appropriate group of captions for the <context>? Answer choices: (A) <captions for image 1 (separated with comma)> (B) <captions for image 2> ... A: Let’s think step by step. ” CoT “<think_prompt> <response of llm with think prompt> Therefore, among A through J, the answer is ” no_CoT (greedy) “Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the <context>? Answer choices: (A) <caption for image 1> (B) <caption for image 2> ... A: ” no_CoT (beam) “Q: What is the most appropriate group of captions for the <context>? Answer choices: (A) <captions for image 1> (B) <captions for image 2> ... A: ” Table 2: QA prompts for gpt-3.5-turbo containing given phrase and extracted image captions. ing Manhattan distance as a similarity measure. ALIGN