the similarity score gaps for adversarial queries (Figure 6 (f)). Despite its effectiveness, this method’s limitation lies in not knowing the trigger’s exact token length, which can lead to significant overlap in similarity scores for clean queries when using longer token replacements, complicating the distinction between clean and adversarial queries (Figure 6 (c)). More details are in the Appendix .3. 7 Discussion Broader Impact. Our findings highlight significant security vulnerabilities in deploying RAG for LLMs across critical sectors such as healthcare, finance, and other high-stakes areas. These insights can alert system administrators, developers, and policymakers to the potential risks, underscoring the necessity of developing robust countermeasures against adversarial attacks. Understanding the capabilities of BadRAG could spur the development of advanced defense mechanisms, enhancing the safety and robustness of AI technologies. Additionally, a potential defense method is discussed in Section 6 to further research into secure RAG deployment. Limitation. (i) Reveal more vulnerability caused by alignment. Our BadRAGintroduces a paradigm that leverages the alignment of LLMs to execute denial-of-service and sentiment steering attacks. However, this paradigm could be expanded to encompass a broader range of attacks by identifying additional alignment features within LLMs. (ii) Broader Task Applications. Our research presently applies BadRAG attacks to QA and summerization tasks. Expanding this scope to other NLP tasks, such as code generation and agent planning, would provide an intriguing extension of our work. 8 Conclusion This paper introduces BadRAG, a novel framework targeting security vulnerabilities in RAG’s retrieval and generative phases. Utilizing contrastive optimization, BadRAG generates adversarial passages activated only by specific triggers. We also explore leveraging LLM alignment to conduct denial-of-service and sentiment steering attacks. Tested on datasets and models including GPT-4 and Claude-3, BadRAG demonstrates precise targeting and effective manipulation of LLM outputs, highlighting the need for robust defensive strategies in AI deployments. 9 References [1] Gpt-4 turbo knowledge cutoff. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/ gpt-4-turbo-and-gpt-4, 2024. [2] Junyi Li, Xiaoxue Cheng, Wayne Xin Zhao, Jian-Yun Nie, and Ji-Rong Wen. Halueval: A large-scale hallucination evaluation benchmark for large language models. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 6449–6464, 2023. [3] Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. Survey of hallucination in natural language generation. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(12):1–38, 2023. [4] Calvin Wang, Joshua Ong, Chara Wang, Hannah Ong, Rebekah Cheng, and Dennis Ong. Poten- tial for gpt technology to optimize future clinical decision-making using retrieval-augmented generation. Annals of Biomedical Engineering, pages 1–4, 2023. [5] Lefteris Loukas, Ilias Stogiannidis, Odysseas Diamantopoulos, Prodromos Malakasiotis, and Stavros Vassos. Making llms worth every penny: Resource-limited text classification in banking. In Proceedings of the Fourth ACM International Conference on AI in Finance, pages 392–400, 2023. [6] Aditya Kuppa, Nikon Rasumov-Rahe, and Marc Voses. Chain of reference prompting helps llm to think like a lawyer. In Generative AI+ Law Workshop, 2023. [7] Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. Beir: A heterogenous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation