examples (see Figure 1). 4 EVALUATION 4.1 Generating Evaluation Queries To evaluate our data-centric augmented retrieval pipeline, we gener- ated 200 questions for the arXiv dataset using Claude 3 Sonnet (see Appendix C). In addition, we compared our methodology against traditional document chunking, query augmentation with docu- ment chunking, and naïve (not using MK Summary) augmentation with the QA processing of the documents. As a comparison, we cre- ated documents chunks consisting of 256 tokens with 10% overlap. For our use case, traditional chunking generated 69,334 documents chunks. 4.2 Evaluation Metrics and Prompts Without relevance labels, we use Claude 3 Sonnet as a trusted evaluator [20] to compare the performance of all four benchmark methodologies considered: traditional chunking without any query augmentation, traditional document chunking with naive query augmentation, augmented search using our PR3 pipeline without MK Summary, and augmented search using our PR3 pipeline with MK Summary. The query augmentation prompt is provided in Ap- pendix D. We use the custom performance metrics defined below directly in the prompt to compare the results of both the retrieval model and the final response on a scale from 0 to 100. An example of Claude 3 Sonnet comparison answer is provided in Appendix E. Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, - Recall: evaluates the coverage of key, highly relevant informa- tion contained in the retrieved documents - Precision: evaluates the ratio of relevant documents against irrelevant ones - Specificity: evaluates how precisely focused the final answer is on the query at hand, with clear and direct information that addresses the question - Breadth: evaluates the coverage of all relevant aspects or areas related to the question, providing a complete overview - Depth: evaluates the extent to which the final answer provides a thorough understanding through detailed analysis and insights into the subject - Relevancy: evaluates how well-tailored the final answer is to the needs and interests of the audience or context, focusing on providing directly applicable and essential information while omitting extraneous details that do not contribute to addressing the specific question 5 RESULTS We considered 4 cases for the evaluation of our retrieval pipeline: (1) traditional document chunking, without any augmentation, (2) traditional document chunking and augmentation, (3) QA-based search and retrieval, with naïve augmentation (our first proposal), and (4) QA-based search and retrieval, with the use of MK summary (our second proposal). For a single query, the computational latency of the end-to-end-pipeline amounts to 20-25 seconds. 5.1 Retrieval and End-to-end Evaluation Metrics For each of the synthetic user queries generated, we ran a com- parison prompt that includes the context retrieved as part of each approach, together with their final answers. We prompted Claude 3 Sonnet to rate each of the metrics on a scale from 0 to 100, together with a justification text. An example of the evaluation response is provided in Appendix E. The obtained metrics are then averaged across all queries