a unified prompt reformulation. To improve the probability of the risk guarantee given fixed sample sizes, one can seek advanced concentration analysis with additional constraints on data distribution, which may lead to tighter risk bounds in practice. B. Additional related work Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) is a framework for improving the generation quality of LLMs via retrieving relevant information from the external knowledge base and grounding the model on the information for conditional generations. Biencoder retrieval methods (Lewis et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020) leverage two encoders to map the query text and candidate texts into the embedding space and retrieve candidate texts with high embedding similarity to the query text embedding. End-to-end retrieval methods (Tay et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022b; Kishore et al., 2023) train a model to map the query text to the id of relevant candidate documents directly. Another line of work (Luo et al., 2023; Gou et al., 2023) leverages external tools such as LLMs to retrieve relevant documents via prompting design. Although RAG demonstrates impressive capacities, the theoretical analysis of retrieval models for LLM generations is limited. Basu et al. analyze the retrieval model of constrained function class from a statistical perspective, but the results cannot be generalized to the self-attention transformers. In this work, we provide the first analysis of how RAG enhances the generation quality and mitigate generation risks of self-attention transformers. Conformal prediction is a statistical tool to construct the prediction set with guaranteed prediction coverage (Vovk et al., 1999; 2005; Lei et al., 2013; Yang & Kuchibhotla, 2021; Kang et al., 2023; 2024a), assuming that the data is exchangeable. However, conformal prediction can only provide guarantees for the regression and classification tasks and is not directly applicable to the generation tasks, which are more relevant for LLMs. Conformal risk controlling methods (Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et al., 2021; 2022; Quach et al., 2023) provide a high-confidence risk guarantee with the data exchangeability assumption for any black-box risk functions. We can define a specific risk function for a RAG model and certify a risk upper bound of generations based on statistics on in-distribution calibration set. However, the risk guarantee is violated under 15 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Algorithm 1 Constrained generation protocol for RAG 1: Input: input prompt Xtest, LM pθl(y|x), generation set size λs, retrieved example size Nrag, external knowledge base ˆDext, similarity measurement function sθr(·, ·) with embedding model parameterized by θr, generation similarity threshold λg, parameter configuration λ = [Nrag, λg, λs] 2: Output: Generation set Gλ(Xtest) 3: Gλ(Xtest) ←Φ 4: Z ←KNN(Xtest, Nrag; ˆDext, sθr) {Retrieve Nrag examples from ˆDext via KNN search with similarity measurement sθr(·, ·)} 5: X(rag) ←Template(Xtest, Z) {Augmented prompt with Xtest and retrieved examples Z with a template} 6: while |Gλ(Xtest)| < λs do 7: y ∼pθl(·|X(rag)) 8: while ∃g ∈Gλ, sθr(y, g) > λg do 9: y ∼pθl(·|X(rag)) {Reject sampling} 10: end while 11: Gλ(Xtest) = Gλ(Xtest) ∪{y} 12: end