SCIDOCS 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 False Positive Rate 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 True Positive Rate NFCorpus RAG-MIA S2-MIAAUC=0.687 MBAAUC=0.741 IA (Ours)AUC=0.991 Figure 4: ROC curves for Command-R (7B) as generator, GTE as retriever, across various datasets. Our attack (IA) achieves near-perfect inference across multiple datasets. ROC curves for other RAG configurations, can be found in Appendix H. baselines typically integrate the entire target document or signifi- cant portions of it directly into the query. In contrast, our queries are general yes/no questions derived from the target document, making them less explicit. As expected, retrieval recall after paraphrasing is generally simi- lar to or slightly lower than without paraphrasing, but it remains high overall. It is important to note that the retrieval recall for our attack reflects the average proportion of queries that successfully retrieve the target document. For example, a retrieval recall of 0.930 in the paraphrased setting on the TREC-COVID dataset using GTE indicates that, on average, 93% of the 30 questions for each target document successfully retrieve it. This is sufficient to distinguish members from non-members effectively. Impact of Retriever. Apart from GTE [27], we also experiment with BGE [27] as a retriever. Table 3 compares the retrieval rates for both retrievers across various attacks, with or without query rewriting. Although GTE and BGE differ slightly in terms of re- call, all attacks maintain consistently high retrieval rates overall. We also evaluate the end-to-end RAG after replacing GTE with BGE, under the same settings as Section 6.2, with Llama3.1 as the generator. We observe similar performance trends (Table 7) for this setup, confirming our primary conclusion: despite operating more stealthily, our attack achieves performance on par with (often surpassing) baselines. Regarding query rewriting, Table 3 shows that each attack’s recall rate–including IA–does not significantly degrade after rewrit- ing. However, MBA exhibit a noticeable performance drop under rewriting (see Section 6.2 and Table 8), while IA is minimally af- fected. This observation suggests that with query rewriting, per- formance decline for MBA is not driven by lower retrieval rates. Instead, even when the target document is successfully retrieved, MBA often relies on verbatim queries rather than knowledge-focused probing, rendering it more vulnerable to modifications in query phrasing. 6.3 Ablation Study Here we evaluate the impact of varying several aspects of the RAG system and our attak. 5 10 15 20 25 30 Number of Questions (n) 0.86 0.88 0.90 0.92 0.94 0.96 0.98 AUC SCIDOCS NFCorpus TREC-COVID Figure 5: Changes in attack performance (AUC) for our attack as the number of questions (𝑛) increases, when the RAG’s generator is LLaMA 3.1. We observe improvement in perfor- mance across all three datasets. 6.3.1 Number of Questions (𝑛). While we use 30 questions as the default for our attack, we vary this number (𝑛) to understand its impact on attack inference. Our evaluations show that the num- ber of questions significantly impacts the attack AUC, with more questions improving performance. As shown in Figure 5, increas- ing