reasoning results. The study [211] comprehensively analyzed the latent multi- hop reasoning capabilities of LLMs. They found that while LLMs can exhibit multi-hop reasoning, their performance is significantly influenced by the structure of the prompt and the relational information within. (iii) Aligning Output with Target Labels: LLMs’ output may not always meet specific requirements, such as aligning with target labels. To overcome this, multi-round integration can help in aligning the model’s output with the desired outcomes. The X-InSTA method [210] proposes a cross-lingual in-context source-target alignment strategy that aligns prompt examples in a cross-lingual scenario. (iii) Multi-round Interaction for Quality Assurance: Multi-round integration can better ensure the stability and quality of the answers. For example, AgentPS [212] integrates agentic process supervision into LLMs via multi-round question answering during fine-tuning, highlighting the effectiveness of integrating process supervision and structured sequential reasoning for multimodal content quality assurance. VII. CONCLUSION LLMs have demonstrated impressive capabilities in natural language processing, achieving remarkable performance across a wide range of tasks. However, their effectiveness diminishes significantly in specialized domains, especially when faced with knowledge-intensive tasks requiring domain expertise that have almost never appeared in the pre-training corpus. RAG has emerged as a promising solution that enhances LLMs with external knowledge bases to improve their domain-specific capabilities. However, traditional RAG systems encounter several critical challenges in customizing LLMs for specific do- mains, including (i) efficient processing of extensive document collections, (ii) effective integration of knowledge dispersed across multiple sources, and (iii) maintenance of contextual coherence during information retrieval and generation. These limitations become particularly critical in applications requiring complex reasoning, where successful inference depends on both comprehensive knowledge integration and deep contex- tual understanding. To address these challenges, GraphRAG emerges as a pioneering approach that enriches LLMs with well-organized background knowledge. This survey provides a comprehensive analysis of GraphRAG, detailing its taxonomy, mechanisms, challenges, and future research directions. Besides, we also provide valuable resources for practitioners to deploy GraphRAG in production environments. REFERENCES [1] OpenAI, “Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023. [2] T. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, and et al., “Language models are few- shot learners,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020. 16 [3] D. Khashabi, S. Min, T. Khot, and et al., “Unifiedqa: Crossing format boundaries with a single qa system,” in Findings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2020. [4] A. Chowdhery, S. Narang, J. Devlin, and et al., “Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways,” Journal of Machine Learning Research (JMLR), 2023. [5] Q. Zhang, J. Dong, H. Chen, and et al., “Knowgpt: Knowledge graph based prompting for large language models,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024. [6] E. J. Hu, yelong shen, P. Wallis, and et al., “LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models,” in International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. [7] J. He, C. Zhou, X. Ma, and et al., “Towards a unified view of parameter- efficient transfer learning,” in International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. [8] Z. Gekhman, G. Yona, R. Aharoni, , and et