the final response to Q based on the evidence in the evidence pool. We propose three evidence fusion strategies (Sec.3.3) to fully use information from diverse rea- soning paths. Additionally, we propose two tree- based search optimization methods (Sec.3.4): prun- ing and effective expansion. These methods aim to enhance the search efficiency of the TOR frame- work. 3.2 Paragraphs Review The TOR framework initiates multiple retrievals, utilizing both the original question Q and new queries generated by the paragraphs review block. We use a dense retriever proposed by Izacard et al. (2023) to encode both the query and the retrieval corpus D and then compute the similarity score of their embeddings by cosine similarity. We expand a child node for each retrieved 3 Figure 2: The left side illustrates the overall TOR framework (introduced in Section 3.1). The upper right half illustrates Paragraphs Review a fundamental component of TOR (introduced in Section 3.2). The lower right half illustrates Evidence Fusion a method for more effectively utilizing retrieved information for reading (introduced in Section 3.3). paragraph individually. The paragraphs review block selects an action based on the question Q and paragraphs along the path. The block is designed to execute the following steps: (i) Judging whether the paragraphs are relevant to the question Q. Relevance means that paragraphs contain partial information to answer the question. (ii) Judging whether the paragraphs have enough information, which means that paragraphs contain all information to answer the question (iii) If it is not relevant, then action selection is [Reject] then stop search; if it is relevant but not enough, action selection is [Search] then generate a new query and retrieval with it; if it is relevant and enough, then action selection is [Accept] then stop search. Once LLM accepts a reasoning path, it will be asked to answer the original question Q based on all the documents on this reasoning path. This answer is called a brief analysis. The accepted reasoning path combined with the brief analysis form a piece of evidence. Utilizing the method above, we iteratively ex- ecute retrieval and review through the depth-first search until each reasoning path is either accepted, rejected, or reaches its maximum search depth. 3.3 Evidence Fusion The evidence pool contains some pieces of evi- dence. The QA reader will generate a response according to the evidence pool. We propose three simple methods for evidence fusion: Analysis-based Fusion: The reader generates a response only according to the brief analysis. Paragraph-Based Fusion: The reader generates a response only according to the paragraphs. Evidence-based fusion: The reader generates a response according to both of them. See Table 10 to 12 for details. 3.4 Tree-Based Search Optimization Although the tree structure can explore more di- verse reasoning paths and reduce failures caused by a single reasoning path, it introduces longer time overheads. Therefore, we propose pruning and effective expansion to reduce redundancy and irrelevant expansion in the search process while guaranteeing expansion diversity. Pruning aims to reduce the initiation of in-