to the sample pairs they contain. 3We use the MS MARCO v2.1 available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/microsoft/ms_marco. 4 Instruction Query FollowIR Promptriever InF-IR (Ours) (a) t-SNE Visualization of Semantic Coverage FollowIR Promptriever InF-IR 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95 APS FollowIR Promptriever InF-IR 106 107 108 109 inter-sample N-gram Frequency Instruction Query Passage (b) Diversity Metrics, APS (↓) and INGF (↑) Figure 3: Visualization and diversity analysis of synthetic training samples from InF-IR. MS MARCO because of its extensive query-passage coverage and high-quality annotations, which provide a solid foundation, allowing us to focus primarily on instruction generation. Overview. Our data curation pipeline proceeds in three stages: (i) We first synthesize explicit instruc- tions aligned to each query-passage pair, creating positive tuples <instruction, query, passage>; (ii) To enhance discriminative representation learning, we then employ gpt-4o-mini (Hurst et al., 2024) to generate challenging negative examples by introducing subtle alterations to instructions and queries; and (iii) We rigorously validate tuple quality using o3-mini as a proxy evaluator, filtering out low-quality tuples where the intended passage relevance is ambiguous or not clearly identifiable. Instruction Generation. We initiate data synthesis by generating a suitable instruction for each query-passage pair in MS MARCO. We prompt gpt-4o-mini to produce instructions that add specificity or stylistic context, thereby explicitly linking queries more precisely to their corresponding ground-truth passages. Leveraging gpt-4o-mini enables scalable instruction generation with a careful balance between effectiveness and computational efficiency. Contrastive Negatives. To facilitate effective representation learning, we generate challenging negative samples by systematically altering instructions and queries independently, forcing the retrieval model to distinguish subtle differences in relevance. Unlike traditional retrieval setups relying solely on <query, passage> pairs, instruction-following retrieval introduces an additional dimension, the instruction. Thus, effective negative sampling must fulfill two criteria: (1) negative samples must be sufficiently different from positives to alter tuple relevance significantly; and (2) they should retain close semantic similarity to positives, enabling models to detect nuanced differences. To fulfill these criteria, we instruct gpt-4o-mini to subtly alter (i.e., poison) the original positive instruction I+ and query Q+, producing closely related yet instructionally misaligned negatives I−and Q−. By combining the negatively modified instruction with the original query (I−, Q+) and vice versa (I+, Q−), we obtain two new negative passages P 1−and P 2−. By contrasting these carefully generated negative tuples (I−, Q+, P 1−) and (I+, Q−, P 2−) against the original positive tuple (I+, Q+, P +), our training encourages the model to more accurately capture subtle variations in instruction, query, and passage relevance (Figure 2). Additional details are available in appendix B. 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95 Cohen's Kappa 0.84 0.78 0.80 0.92 FollowIR-7B gpt-4o-mini gpt-4o o3-mini Figure 4: Cohen’s kappa from 100 random samples. Data Quality Check. To ensure the quality and semantic consis- tency of our synthetic data, we employ an advanced reasoning model, o3-mini, for quality evaluation. This validation procedure rigorously verifies whether the generated instructions preserve the original positive relevance of <query,passage> pairs from MS MARCO. We specif- ically check consistency across