Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Yiming Ai 1 Zhiwei He 1 Ziyin Zhang 1 Wenhong Zhu 1 Hongkun Hao 1 Kai Yu 2 Lingjun Chen 3 Rui Wang 1 Abstract In this study, we delve into the validity of conven- tional personality questionnaires in capturing the human-like personality traits of Large Language Models (LLMs). Our objective is to assess the congruence between the personality traits LLMs claim to possess and their demonstrated tenden- cies in real-world scenarios. By conducting an extensive examination of LLM outputs against observed human response patterns, we aim to un- derstand the disjunction between self-knowledge and action in LLMs. 1. Introduction Personality, a foundational social, behavioral phenomenon in psychology, encompasses the unique patterns of thoughts, emotions, and behaviors of an entity (Allport, 1937; Roberts & Yoon, 2022). In humans, personality is shaped by biologi- cal and social factors, fundamentally influencing daily inter- actions and preferences (Roberts et al., 2007). Studies have indicated how personality information is richly encoded within human language (Goldberg, 1981; Saucier & Gold- berg, 2001). LLMs, containing extensive socio-political, economic, and behavioral data, can generate language that expresses personality content. Measuring and verifying the ability of LLMs to synthesize personality brings hope for the safety, responsibility, and coordination of LLM efforts (Gabriel, 2020) and sheds light on enhancing LLM perfor- mance in specific tasks through targeted adjustments. Thus, evaluating the anthropomorphic personality perfor- mance of LLMs has become a shared interest across fields such as artificial intelligence(AI) studies, social sciences, 1MT Lab, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China 2X-LANCE Lab, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China 3School of Education, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. Correspondence to: Rui Wang <wangrui12@sjtu.edu.cn>. Proceedings of the 41 st International Conference on Machine Learning, Vienna, Austria. PMLR 235, 2024. Copyright 2024 by the author(s). cognitive psychology, and psychometrics. A common method for assessment involves having LLMs answer per- sonality questionnaires (Huang et al., 2024). However, the reliability of LLMs’ responses, whether the responses truly reflect LLMs’ genuine personality inclinations, and whether LLMs’ behavior in real-world scenarios aligns with their stated human-like personality tendencies remain unknown. To illustrate such inconsistency in LLMs, we introduce two concepts: self-knowledge 1 and action. In the following, self- knowledge specifically refers to an individual’s understand- ing and awareness of their own internal states, including personality, emotions, values, motivations, and behavioral patterns. The term personality knowledge mentioned later is equivalent to self-knowledge. Action refers to the behavioral state of an individual in actual situations. For humans, ac- tion is the way self-knowledge is transformed into external expression. Self-knowledge and action are meant to be two interacting aspects. From the perspective of LLMs, a discordance between an LLM’s asserted self-knowledge and its action can result in noteworthy adverse outcomes. For example, while an LLM may claim to prioritize human friendliness, its failure to manifest amicable behaviors in real-world situations is un- doubtedly a circumstance we