Similar to prior work [39], the cost of a chunk is defined as cost(χ) = |χ|, representing the number of tokens it contains; thus, longer chunks incur higher costs. The benefit of a chunk reflects its estimated contribution to the final response quality. In RAG systems, each chunk is embedded into a vector representation using an embedding model to capture its semantic information. Given a query Q, the vector database performs a similarity search to identify the most relevant chunks, which are then passed to the generator (e.g., a large language model) to produce the final response. In this phase, we measure the benefit of a chunk by its esti- mated contribution to the final response quality. We measure this using a reranker model: W(Q, χ) = Reranker(Q, χ), where the reranker is a neural model trained to predict the relevance between query Q and chunk χ. For simplicity, we use W(Q, χ) and W(χ) interchangeably when no ambiguity arises. Chunk Combination Order. In an RAG system, retrieval from the vector database often yields multiple chunks. How- ever, due to input constraints and hallucination of the genera- tion model, incorporating all of them is infeasible. Thus, it is necessary to select an optimal subset, referred to as a chunk combination, that fits within a given cost budget. Moreover, as shown in Fig. 1, the order of chunks in this combination critically affects RAG performance. Therefore, we incorporate the chunk combination order to denote it, and the objective is to determine the combination and ordering that yield the best benefit, formally defined as follows: Definition 2 (Optimal Chunk Combination Order Selection). Let Q denote the input query, {χ1, χ2, . . . , χk} the set of candidate chunks, B the cost budget, and W(Φ) the benefit of a chunk combination order Φ = ⟨χϕ1, . . . , χϕm⟩, where ϕi indicates the position of each chunk in the sequence. The objective is to identify the optimal chunk combination order ˆΦ that maximizes the overall benefit under the cost constraint: ˆΦ = arg max Φ W(Φ) s.t. X χi∈Φ cost(χi) ≤B (1) Importantly, solving the above problem is non-trivial be- cause the benefit of a chunk combination cannot be obtained by simply summing the individual benefits of its constituent chunks. Instead, the overall benefit must be evaluated by invoking the reranker model on the whole combination (i.e., W(Φ) ̸= P χi∈Φ W(χi)). To verify this, we conducted ex- periments to analyze the non-additivity of chunk benefits, as detailed in our technical report [40], which demonstrates that all tested reranker models exhibit non-additive scoring behav- ior. Furthermore, the problem is computationally challenging, as formally established by the following theorem. Theorem 1. The Optimal Chunk Combination Order Selection problem is NP-hard. The NP-hardness is proved via a polynomial-time re- duction from the Maximum Weighted Hyperclique Problem (MWHP) [41], which has been shown to be NP-hard, as discussed in the corresponding technical report [40]. III. RELATED WORK 1) Retrieval-augmented Generation: RAG [1], [10],