heavy models for the ranking stage: our LTR module requires 20 minutes training on a CPU, thus being a very computationally affordable option for retrieval. A potential combination of techniques men- tioned in Zhang et al. (2023b); Patil et al. (2023); Yang et al. (2023) and ours can yield even more impressive results for VWSD, as long as related computational considerations are relaxed. 5 Conclusion In this work, we provided an extensive founda- tional experimentation and analysis on the novel Visual Word Sense Disambiguation (VWSD) task. Specifically, we employed several state-of-the-art models for VL retrieval to build strong baselines, showcased the merits of enhancing ambiguous phrases with external knowledge stored in LLMs and achieved competitive ranking results by train- ing a lightweight retrieval module using features extracted from our independent experiments. More- over, we obtained useful explanations that unveil the reasoning process behind VWSD via Chain-of- Thought prompting. Our results surpassed concur- rent implementations and given baselines, while demonstrating valuable insights that can drive fu- ture state-of-the-art implementations. We plan to expand our experimentation towards exploring the use of soft prompting to advance knowledge en- hancement, and explore the possibility of harness- ing large-scale knowledge graphs for further en- richment of ambiguous phrases. Finally, we view explainability aspects of VWSD as a critical direc- tion to be studied as future work. Acknowledgments The research work was supported by the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation (HFRI) under the 3rd Call for HFRI PhD Fellowships (Fel- lowship Number 5537). Limitations Our current work is accompanied with certain limi- tations, some of which we plan to address as future work. First of all, due to limited computational resources, we do not resort to very large LMs (>7B parameters) in our machines; however, scaling-up would probably provide advanced knowledge en- hancement for short phrases, an assumption that can be strengthened by the advanced results occur- ring when incorporating the 175B GPT-3 in our experimental pipelines. The usage of GPT-3 and GPT-3.5-turbo was focused on a targeted experi- mental subset due to high pricing. On the other hand, with respect to this limitation, we chose to distribute our efforts across varying approaches for VWSD rather than focusing to delve into a specific direction (e.g. LLM-based knowledge en- hancement) and explore the contribution of larger LMs. Moreover, under this resource limitation, our results can drive researchers that have access to limited computational resources to replicate and extend our analysis, instead of restricting this exper- imentation to institutions or individual researchers with higher budgets. Other than that, the LLM-enhancement tech- nique faces the risks associated with hallucinations and untruthful generation, which cannot be easily detected or resolved, according to related state- of-the-art research (Bang et al., 2023; Mündler et al., 2023; Azaria and Mitchell, 2023; Zheng et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023a). Such a shortcoming could negatively impact our results, since we have not investigated whether there are hallucinated or untruthful enhancements, especially since some phrases may require specific domain knowledge to be evaluated (for