research endeavors. Their aim is to har- moniously marry the static knowledge encapsulated within the language model to the dynamic wealth of information on the web. The development of these models can be bifurcated into two pri- mary phases: single-time retrieval and multi-time retrieval. Single-time Retrieval. Initial endeavors in retrieval-augmented language models predominantly embraced the single-time retrieval strategy [6, 9, 20, 40]. In this framework, a single-time extraction of knowledge was performed in response to the user’s initial query. Various methods were conceived to incorporate this external knowl- edge retrieval. For instance, Guu et al. [5] introduced a language model that incorporated latent knowledge retrieval during pre- training, whereas Ram et al. [26] chose to keep the core LM archi- tecture untouched, simply appending grounding documents to its input. Meanwhile, Shi et al. [30] perceived the language model as an inscrutable entity, complementing it with an externally trainable retrieval module. Such strategies showcased remarkable efficacy for tasks that demanded straightforward information, like factoid question answering [18] and fact verification [32]. However, their applicability waned for intricate tasks demanding multi-hop rea- soning, as the single-time retrieval lacked the depth to decode the subtleties embedded in complex inquiries. Multi-time Retrieval. To counter the shortcomings of the single-time retrieval paradigm, the spotlight shifted towards the development of multi-time retrieval models. This paradigm champi- ons an iterative knowledge extraction process throughout content generation. Some approaches [15, 23, 34] are designed to passively harness past contexts, conducting retrievals at predetermined inter- vals. Others [17, 39] deconstruct a multifaceted query into a series of simpler sub-queries, each necessitating its distinct retrieval oper- ation. Furthermore, the intrinsic capabilities of the latest LLMs have been harnessed to autonomously dictate the timing and content of Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore No knowledge Only External Only Internal Internal & External knowledge Conditions 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Count 45 28 15 12 1 4 5 5 9 8 6 6 Total Number Standard RAG ReAct 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 Accuracy Standard RAG Accuracy ReAct Accuracy Figure 2: Comparisons of single- and multi-time retrieval- augmented LLMs under different conditions of knowledge. retrievals. For instance, Press et al. [25] leverages the model’s par- tially generated content as evolving search queries, allowing it to iteratively refine its search. Meanwhile, Jiang et al. [12] strategically uses prospective sentences as dynamic search triggers. The ReAct model [39] ingeniously fuses a Chain-of-Thought (CoT) rationale with action in a seamless thought-action-observation loop. Other innovative approaches [29, 31] embed introspective mechanisms that iteratively refine the model’s outputs. This iterative retrieval approach proves effective for queries with inherent ambiguities [42] or those demanding a synthesis of diverse information sources. In contrast to the aforementioned studies, this paper conducts an exploration of The fundamental reasons for causing the model to answer incorrectly in RAG. Drawing inspiration from the domain of cognitive psychology, we integrate metacognitive ability into LLMs to enable the model to be aware of its reasoning