timent, factuality and disinformation, ASR, and TTS among others. We evaluate 33 tasks and 61 datasets with 98 test setups, which are very promi- nent for Arabic AI. We compare and report the performance of each task and dataset with SOTA, which will enable the community and practitioners of large language models to decide on their uses of these models. Future work aims to investigate open models and explore ways to reduce the perfor- mance gap with SOTA; enhance prompts for better performance; and expand datasets and tasks. Limitations The main focus of this study was to benchmark LLMs for Arabic NLP and Speech tasks. We eval- uated several large models, including those from OpenAI, BLOOMZ, Jais, USM, and Whisper, and compared them to the SOTA. We plan to extend our study by adding other models recently released for Arabic. In this work, we benchmarked 61 datasets with 98 test setups for 33 tasks. However, we did not benchmark all available data sets. For exam- ple, the study reported in (Elmadany et al., 2023) benchmarked 19 sentiment datasets, whereas we only covered one. It is also possible that we missed many other Arabic NLP and Speech tasks, which we will attempt to cover in the future. Our cur- rent results are highly dependent on prompt design. Additional efforts on prompt engineering could po- tentially improve the results. In addition, performance may vary depending on the version of the models we used.11 For GPTs, we utilized gpt-3.5-turbo-0301 and gpt-4-0314 ver- sions for our NLP tasks. To ensure transparency and reproducibility, we made all resources publicly available. This will facilitate the easy replication of our results using the provided pipeline and the fixed model versions. The same principle extends to our speech models. We have taken steps to main- tain versioning not only for the models themselves but also for the prompts used. This ensures that our work remains reproducible for future researchers in the field. Potential Risk We do not oversee any potential risk that can result from our study. Ethics Statement Our evaluation includes tasks and datasets related to disinformation, and hate speech. We used publicly available datasets and evaluated whether LLMs can classify them (e.g., hate vs. non-hate). We do not foresee any potential risk from the out- come of our work. Acknowledgments The contributions of M. Hasanain were funded by the NPRP grant 14C-0916-210015, which is pro- vided by the Qatar National Research Fund (a mem- ber of Qatar Foundation). 11https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/ overview References Ahmed Abdelali, Mohammed Attia, Younes Samih, Ka- reem Darwish, and Hamdy Mubarak. 2019. Dia- critization of maghrebi Arabic sub-dialects. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.06619. Ahmed Abdelali, Kareem Darwish, Nadir Durrani, and Hamdy Mubarak. 2016. Farasa: A fast and furious segmenter for Arabic. In Proceedings of the 2016 conference of the North American chapter of the as- sociation for computational linguistics: Demonstra- tions, pages 11–16. Ahmed Abdelali, Nadir Durrani, Cenk Demiroglu, Fahim Dalvi, Hamdy Mubarak, and Kareem Dar- wish. 2022. Natiq: An end-to-end text-to-speech system for arabic. In