award is given annually to a stand out young player in the Australian Football League. The award was won by Jesse Hogan of Melbourne The 2015 AFL Rising Star award was won by Jesse Hogan of Melbourne. Jesse Hogan is a professional Australian rules footballer. He is 198 cm tall. So the answer is 198 cm Title: Jesse Hogan Context: Jesse Hogan … playing for the Melbourne Football Club. A key forward, Hogan is 1.95 m tall … made his AFL debut in the 2015 season and won the Ron Evans Medal as the AFL Rising Star The 2015 AFL Rising Star award was won by Jesse Hogan of Melbourne. Jesse Hogan is 1.95 m tall. So the answer is 1.95 m Iteration 1 Iteration 2 Generation-Augmented Retrieval: Retrieval-Augmented Generation: Question: What is the height of the player who won the 2015 AFL Rising Star award? Figure 1: ITER-RETGEN iterates retrieval and generation. In each iteration, ITER-RETGEN leverages the model output from the previous iteration as a specific context to help retrieve more relevant knowledge, which may help improve model generation (e.g., correcting the height of Hesse Hogan in this figure). We only show two iterations in this figure for brevity. Solid arrows connect queries to the retrieved knowledge, and dashed arrows denote retrieval-augmented generation. relevant information which helps improve genera- tion in the next iteration. ITER-RETGEN also has the advantage of processing all retrieved knowl- edge as a whole during the generation process, and is conceptually simpler and easier-to-implement, while being empirically strong in multi-hop ques- tion answering, fact verification, and commonsense reasoning. A closely related work called GAR (Mao et al., 2021) augments queries with generated background information. HyDE (Gao et al., 2022a) also shares a similar spirit, but focuses on zero-shot informa- tion retrieval, and proposes to first prompt an LLM to produce “hypothetical” paragraphs that cover the information needed to answer a given question, and then use the generated paragraphs to retrieve the real ones. RepoCoder (Zhang et al., 2023) focuses on repository-level code completion, and proposes a 2-iteration retrieval-generation paradigm where the second iteration leverages the intermediate code completion for retrieval. By contrast, we propose to synergize retrieval and generation with ITER- RETGEN on various natural language tasks, and explore how we can further adapt retrieval with model generations. 3 Iterative Retrieval-Generation Synergy 3.1 Overview Given a question q and a retrieval corpus D = {d} where d is a paragraph, ITER-RETGEN repeats retrieval-generation for T iterations; in iteration t, we (1) leverage the generation yt−1 from the previous iteration, concatenated with q, to retrieve top-k paragraphs, and then (2) prompt an LLM M to produce an output yt, with both the retrieved paragraphs (denoted as Dyt−1||q) and q integrated into the prompt. Therefore, each iteration can be formulated as follows: yt = M(yt|prompt(Dyt−1||q, q)), ∀1 ≤t ≤T (1) The last output yT will be produced as the final response. 3.2 Generation-Augmented Retrieval There are many natural language tasks with com- plex information needs. For