phrases t with more detail in a zero-shot fashion (Kritharoula et al., 2023) and thus facil- itate VL retrieval described in the previous para- graph. All prompts to LLMs presented in Tab. 1 are designed upon manually crafted templates, based on the intuition that instructively requesting spe- cific information from the model has been proven to be beneficial (Kojima et al., 2023). We select LLMs up to the scale that our hardware allows, or otherwise accessible via public APIs; specifically, GPT2-XL (1.5B parameters) (Radford et al., 2019), BLOOMZ-1.7B & 3B (Muennighoff et al., 2023), OPT-2.7B & 6.7B (Zhang et al., 2022), Galactica 6.7B (Taylor et al., 2022), and the 175B parameter GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and GPT-3.5-turbo1 comprise our experimental set for phrase enhance- ment. The difference in the number of parameters is viewed as significant in order to indicate whether scale matters to elicit disambiguation capabilities of LLMs. We denote as te the LLM-enhanced phrases. Similar to the baseline case, a penalty factor p(i) can be included, adjusting the LLM- enhanced retrieval score as: score(te, i) = sim(te, i) −p(i) (2) 3. Image captioning for text retrieval We lever- age the merits of unimodal retrieval by exploiting state-of-the-art image captioning transformers to 1https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5 Prompt name Prompt template exact “<phrase> ” what_is “What is <phrase>?” describe “Describe <phrase>.” meaning_of “What is the meaning of <phrase>?” Table 1: Prompts for phrase enhancement via LLMs. convert images i to textual captions ci. Specifically, the captioning models used are BLIP Captions (Li et al., 2022) with ViT-base encoder (BLIP-L Cap- tions denotes building upon ViT-large), as well as GiT (Wang et al., 2022) (with ViT-base) and GiT-L (with ViT-large). For all BLIP and GiT variants we attempt both beam-search multinomial sampling with 5 beams to obtain k=10 captions per image i, as well as greedy search. We symbolize as ck i the k-th caption for an image i, as obtained from beam search (greedy search returns a single cap- tion). In the case of beam search, the 10 captions are post-processed, as some of them are identical or substrings of longer ones. We explore two options in obtaining embedding representations for the captions ci and the phrases t. In the first case, embedding representations are obtained using the same VL transformers as in mul- timodal retrieval. In the second case, we utilize a variety of purely textual sentence transformers that are fine-tuned for semantic similarity (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). Then, for both cases, we use co- sine similarity or euclidean/manhattan 2 distance to calculate the score(t, ck i ), thus retrieving the most similar caption embedding to each phrase embed- ding. Experiments with and without LLM-based phrase enrichment were conducted. 4. Wikipedia & Wikidata image retrieval Image-to-image retrieval is another way to ap- proach the VWSD task via unimodal represen- tations. For this reason, following the idea of (Dadas, 2023) we exploit the Wikipedia API to retrieve all relevant articles corresponding to the given phrase t, and we keep the primary image