(CA) loss. Specifically, the CA loss ensures that all positive scores (the scores of positive COTs) are larger than negative scores. In addition, the negative scores are protected by a constraint term, which is proven to be very important in preventing model degradation. Beyond just binary positive and negative feedback, the CA loss can be seamlessly adapted to ranking situations when ranking feedback is accessible. Furthermore, we also delve deeply into recent ranking-based methods for alignment, such as DPO (Rafailov et al., 2023), PRO (Song et al., 2023a) and RRHF (Yuan et al., 2023b), and find that the constraint, which has been overlooked by these approaches, is also crucial for their effectiveness. In summary, our contributions are: 1) We discover that LLMs fine-tuned by the vanilla fine-tuning (VFT) paradigm suffer from an Assessment Misalignment problem: they frequently assign lower scores to high-quality COTs compared to low-quality ones, which hinders their reasoning ability. 2) We present an Alignment Fine-Tuning (AFT) paradigm, which comprises three straightforward steps with a novel constraint alignment loss to address the identified problem. 3) We delve deeply into recent ranking-based methods for alignment and find that the constraint, which has been overlooked by these approaches, is also crucial for their performance. 4) Experiments on four reasoning benchmarks with both binary and ranking feedback demonstrate the effectiveness of AFT. AFT also performs well in multi-task and out-of-distribution situations. 2 RELATED WORKS 2.1 IMPROVE REASONING OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS Reasoning is a cognitive process that involves utilizing evidence to reach a well-founded conclusion, which is a core ability of LLMs to serve as the brain of the artificial general intelligence agent. Researchers have proposed a lot of methods to improve the reasoning ability of LLMs, which can be broadly divided into three groups: 1) pre-training: The pre-training methods pre-train the LLMs on a vast of unsupervised datasets, such as the pile (Gao et al., 2020), the stack (Kocetkov et al., 2022), and so on, with a simple next token prediction objective. Researchers find that a larger model pre-trained on more data tends to have better reasoning ability (OpenAI, 2023; Anil et al., 2 Preprint 2023; Touvron et al., 2023); 2) fine-tuning: The fine-tuning methods can also enhance the reasoning ability of LLMs. Researchers have found that fine-tuning LLMs on the data with the reasoning chain-of-thought process can significantly improve the reasoning of LLMs (Mukherjee et al., 2023; Chung et al., 2022; Li et al., 2023a); 3) prompting: The prompting methods aims to improve the reasoning ability by carefully designed prompting strategy, such as chain-of-thought prompting (Wei et al., 2022), self-consistency (Wang et al., 2023c) strategy, and so on. The prompting methods do not change the model parameters, which is very convenient and practical. In this paper, we focus on the fine-tuning methods and find that traditional vanilla chain-of-thought fine-tuned LLMs suffer from an assessment misalignment problem, which hinders their reasoning ability. To this end, we propose an alignment fine-tuning paradigm to address this problem to enhance the reasoning ability