and can be used for a variety of tasks, such as text similarity, classification, and clustering. (4) Biencoder-supervised fine-tuning (Biencoder-SFT) (Wang et al., 2023c) is a bi-encoder based dense retriever trained with contrastive loss and hard negative sampling strategies. It iteratively trains the retrieval model with hard negative samples identified by computing similarity scores by the current retrieval model. Implementation details We leverage Llama-7b for inference without specification. We perform conformal calibration on validation sets for different NLP datasets and fix the confidence levels 1 −δ = 0.9 across all evaluations. Lastly, we concatenate the retrieved in-context examples and the query sample with line break tokens. J.2. Conformal risk bounds evaluation Soundness and tightness of generation risk guarantees in C-RAG. To achieve the generation risk guarantee in Eq. (3), C-RAG computes the upper confidence bound of generation risk by Prop. 1, which takes the empirical risk, calibration size and confidence level as input. We evaluate the conformal risks of RAG models αrag with variations of the number of retrieved examples Nrag by calibration statistics on the validation set. To validate the soundness and tightness of the risk bounds, we randomly sample multiple test sets from a pool of test samples and compute the empirical risks on the sampled test sets. The sampling protocol is detailed in Alg. 3 in App. J.2. We provide the results for BM25, BAAI/bge, Biencoder-SFT in Figs. 8 to 10. The results show that (1) the certified conformal risks αrag (black up-pointing triangles) are larger than the empirical risks of sampled test sets (grey points) and some empirical risks approach the risk bounds, demonstrating the soundness and tightness of risk bounds in C-RAG, and (2) the conformal risks decrease much as the number of retrieved examples Nrag increases, which shows the effectiveness of retrieved in-context examples in RAG model and aligns with our theoretical analysis in Thm. 1. 34 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Evaluation Risk AESLC Hellinger Distance ρ CommonGen Hellinger Distance ρ DART Hellinger Distance ρ E2E Hellinger Distance ρ Figure 12: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risks with BM25 under distribution shifts with Nrag = 15, λg = 1, λs = 1.0. Evaluation Risk AESLC Hellinger Distance ρ CommonGen Hellinger Distance ρ DART Hellinger Distance ρ E2E Hellinger Distance ρ Figure 13: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risks with BAAI/bge under distribution shifts with Nrag = 15, λg = 1, λs = 1.0. Comparisons of C-RAG risk bounds for SOTA retrieval models. We also compare the conformal risk bounds of C-RAG for different retrieval models, including sparse encoding method BM25, and SOTA dense encoding models BAAI/bge, OpenAI/ada, Biencoder-SFT. The results in Fig. 4 show that (1) RAG benefits in achieving a lower conformal risks of generations for different retrieval models, and (2) Biencoder-SFT is the most performant generally since the model is trained in the same domain as the test sets, while OpenAI/ada trained with an open corpus also demonstrates impressive effectiveness and even outperforms Biencoder-SFT on CommonGen