3 and 7) show that inverse scaling can be avoided with even a single in-context parallel ex- ample, a similar conclusion was also made in Wei et al. (2023), where they use few-shot examples to reverse the inverse scaling in several tasks that previously exhibited inverse scaling. Another potential mitigation based on our ex- periment results is training on code and/or instruc- tion tuning, as the two GPT-3.5 models reverse the inverse scaling trend. The rather U-shape or positive scaling behaviour of the Llama2-chat mod- els also suggests that instruction tuning endows the model with a better ability to correctly under- stand instructions. Similar results are also shown by Miceli Barone et al. (2023), where the GPT- 3.5 models reversed the inverse scaling trend of (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Romanian-English (d) French-English (e) English-German (f) English-French (g) English-Romanian (h) English-Russian Figure 7: accuracy score of Llama2 models in adversarial experiments (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Romanian-English (d) Russian-English (e) English-German (f) English-French (g) English-Romanian (h) English-Russian Figure 8: accuracy score of Llama2-chat models in adversarial experiments x - English accuracy English - x accuracy de-en 0.904 en-de 0.731 fr-en 0.926 en-fr 0.739 ro-en 0.908 en-ro 0.746 ru-en 0.903 en-ru 0.708 x - English accuracy English - x accuracy de-en 0.629 en-de 0.486 fr-en 0.734 en-fr 0.545 ro-en 0.663 en-ro 0.550 ru-en 0.756 en-ru 0.505 Table 2: average accuracies of X-to/from English lan- guage pairs. top: non-adversarial experiments, bottom: adversarial experiments Instruct GPT. However, note that instruction tun- ing might interfere with in-context learning, as evi- denced by the Llama2-chat results, but not the GPT- 3.5 results, hence we recommend to take great care with data set curation when applying instruction tuning in order to avoid capability regression. Finally, one may ask whether mere scaling might eventually overcome all inverse trends. In Wei et al. (2023), the authors repeated the inverse scaling ex- periments of McKenzie et al. (2023) with much larger models and found that for most of the tasks that show inverse scaling, further scaling up the model sizes did manage to reverse the trend, as the performance goes up again and forms a U-shape scaling. In McKenzie et al. (2023), GPT-4 also performs better than most GPT-3 and InstructGPT models, however, in Miceli Barone et al. (2023), even GPT4 performs worse than smaller models of the same family, suggesting that mere model scal- ing may not be sufficient to solve poor performance on difficult examples, or at least not in an efficient way given the costs of training and deploying very large models. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we investigated the scaling behaviour of LLMs in the task of machine translation of fac- tual questions, both on clear examples and on adver- sarial examples constructed according to a simple prompt injection attack where we tell the model to answer the questions instead of translating them. We found inverse scaling under certain model se- ries and zero-shot scenarios. In addition to the effect from the model size, we