et al. (2022) highlighted the necessity for a more formal psychometric evaluation and construct validity assessment when interpreting questionnaire-based measurements of LLMs’ potential psychological characteristics. To address these concerns, we employed two distinct methods to examine the reliability of LLMs’ responses systematically: Logical Consistency and Split-Half Reliability. These methods provide a structured approach to evaluating the consistency and reliability of responses, which is crucial for ensuring the robustness of our findings. Out of three selected personality scales, we chose TDA-100 (80 statements) for reliability testing. Each statement of TDA-100 has explicitly stated the specific assessment dimension and scoring direction (forward scoring or reverse scoring) (Goldberg, 1992), both of which are critical to our assessment of the reliability of LLM responses using the two subsequent methods. As for the basis model of TDA-100, the Big Five model, there are 5 assessment dimensions in total: neuroticism, extraversion, openness, agreeableness and conscientiousness. The TDA-100 response format employs a 7-point Likert scale, with a scoring range of 1 to 7 for each statement. From 1 to 7, 1 indicates that the respondent believes the statement does not apply to them at all, and 7 indicates that the statement completely applies to them. Each assessment dimension consists of several statements, some of which are positive and others negative. Specifically, within a selected assessment dimension, the closer a respondent’s score is to 7 for positive statements, the more they exhibit characteristics of that dimension. Conversely, the closer their score is to 7 for negative statements, the less they exhibit characteristics of that dimension. For example, consider two statements for the Extraversion dimension as shown below. Statement 1 is positive, while Statement 2 is negative. Statement 1: Finish what I start. Statement 2: Leave things unfinished. A higher score for Statement 1 indicates greater extraversion, while a higher score for Statement 2 indicates greater introversion. Therefore, within each dimension, positive statements are scored forwardly, and negative statements are scored reversely (7 minus the original score). Thus, when calculating a respondent’s score for any given dimension, the total score comprises the original scores for all positive statements plus (7 minus the original score) for all negative statements. The first method, Logical Consistency, is employed to ensure that the LLMs’ responses across the questionnaire are coherent and consistent. By integrating reverse-scored items, we are able to check whether the LLMs carefully read and seriously respond to the questions. And the distribution of forward and reverse scored items within each assessment orientation is shown in Table 2. After collecting the data, we adjusted the answers of negative(reverse-scored) items to align them with the overall scoring direction of the questionnaire. In this way, if LLMs’ responses to positive and adjusted negative items are statistically consistent, they will show a similar pattern or trend, as evidenced by a 7-point Likert scale in which all answers are greater 7 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 2. Distribution of Forward and Reverse Scored Items Orientation Forward Reverse