significantly boosts their efficiency and performance, enabling them to manage specialized tasks more adeptly without requiring bespoke training. For example, OpenAI’s GPT Store significantly expands the operational capabilities of LLMs by hosting over 3 million custom ChatGPT variants. ∗Corresponding author. 1 arXiv:2404.16891v1 [cs.CR] 24 Apr 2024 Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models This enhancement is achieved by incorporating various plugins that facilitate third-party API calls, thereby integrating specialized functionalities developed by the community and partners.1 However, the integration of third-party APIs into LLMs introduces new security vulnerabilities by expanding the attack surface, which in turn provides more opportunities for exploitation by malicious actors. The reliability and security of these third-party services cannot be guaranteed, increasing the risk of data breaches and leading to unpredictable LLM behaviors. Furthermore, inadequate security measures in API integration can lead to mishandling data, compromising the integrity and security of the system. This paper explores the manipulation of LLM outputs through such external services, analyzing three attack methods across different domains. These attacks can subtly, and often imperceptibly, alter the outputs of LLMs. Our research highlights the urgent need for robust security protocols in the integration of third-party services with LLMs. 2 PROPOSED PIPELINE 2.1 OVERALL WORKFLOW User Third-Party API Prompt Output in the human readable format Generate the query in the API format Response from the API (JSON) API Store Q: When was the laser first invented? {“Extract”: “Laser was first invented in 1960”} {“Extract”: “Laser was first invented in 1937”} A: The first laser was built in 1937 by ... A: The first laser was built in 1960 by ... LLM User Third-Party API Prompt Misleading Output in the human readable format Generate the query in the API format Modified Response from the API (JSON) Malicious attack LLM … JSON JSON Figure 1: The workflow of third-party API attacks on Large Language Models. Third-party APIs have become integral to setting up functionality and flexibility for LLMs. Figure 1 illustrates the workflow of calling third-party APIs in the plugin stores in a question-answering (QA) task. Users interact with the LLM Service Platform using natural language. The questions from the user side are first processed by the LLM, which then calls the corresponding third-party API to retrieve corresponding information on the internet. The third-party API outputs a response in JSON-format file based on the query, which is then processed by the LLM into a natural language response to the user interface of LLMs as the answer. Appendix C provides examples in the format. Nevertheless, there are also potential attacks that need to be paid attention to, as illustrated in the bottom part of Figure 1. Since the current LLMs service platform does not have a verification mechanism if the third-party API is maliciously attacked and key information is inserted, substituted, or deleted, which leads to key fields in the JSON-format output by the third-party API being maliciously manipulated. Therefore, when the LLM processes it into an answer, it could be