iteration, retrieval, aug- mented with the LLM output from the first iteration, HotPotQA Question: The arena where the Lewiston Maineiacs played their home games can seat how many people? Answer: 3,677 seated Iteration 1 Retrieved Knowledge (1) Title: Lewiston Maineiacs Context: The Lewiston Maineiacs were a junior ice hockey team ... The team played its home games at the Androscoggin Bank Colisée ... (2) Title: Bangor Auditorium Context: ... a 5,948 seat multi-purpose arena located in Bangor, Maine ... Generation The Lewiston Maineiacs were a junior ice hockey team of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League based in Lewiston, Maine. The team played its home games at the Androscoggin Bank Colisée. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée can seat up to 5,948 people. So the answer is 5,948 Iteration 2 Retrieved Knowledge (1) Title: Lewiston Maineiacs Context: The Lewiston Maineiacs were a junior ice hockey team ... The team played its home games at the Androscoggin Bank Colisée ... (2) Title: Androscoggin Bank Colisée Context: The Androscoggin Bank Colisée (formerly Central Maine Civic Center and Lewiston Colisee) is a 4,000 capacity (3,677 seated) multi-purpose arena ... Generation The Lewiston Maineiacs were a junior ice hockey team of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League based in Lewiston, Maine. They played their home games at the Androscoggin Bank Colisée. The Androscoggin Bank Colisée has a capacity of 4,000 (3,677 seated). So the answer is 3,677 StrategyQA Question: Can you get Raclette in YMCA headquarters city? Answer: Yes Iteration 1 Retrieved Knowledge (1) Title: YMCA Building (Racine, Wisconsin) Context: ... Since the 50’s, headquarters of the publishing house and the bookstore are located in 11 rue de la Montagne Sainte-Geneviève 75005 Paris ... Generation The YMCA headquarters is located in Paris, France. Raclette is a traditional Swiss dish, made with melted cheese served with potatoes, pickles, and other accompaniments. It is not a traditional French dish, so it is unlikely to be found in Paris. So the answer is No Iteration 2 Retrieved Knowledge (1) Title: Raclette Context: Raclette is a Swiss dish, also popular in France, based on heating cheese and scraping off the melted part ... (2) Title: YMCA Building (Racine, Wisconsin) Context: ... Since the 50’s, headquarters of the publishing house and the bookstore are located in 11 rue de la Montagne Sainte-Geneviève 75005 Paris ... Generation YMCA headquarters is located in Paris, France. Raclette is a dish native to parts of Switzerland, but it is also popular in France. So it is likely that Raclette can be found in Paris. So the answer is Yes Table 7: Two examples demonstrating retrieval-generation synergy. We underline generated phrases that help retrieve relevant knowledge which successfully corrects factual errors (in red) in the second iteration. Irrelevant retrieved paragraphs are not shown in the table for brevity. achieves significantly higher recall, indicating that LLM generations can help bridge the semantic gaps between complex questions and their supporting knowledge. However, performance quickly hits a plateau afterwards. 4.6.2 ITER-RETGEN Leverages Parametric and Non-Parametric Knowledge Better Ideally, an