and ask: Can RAG indeed lead to low generation risks? How can we provide provable guarantees on the generation risks of RAG and vanilla LLMs? What are the sufficient conditions that enable RAG models to reduce generation risks? Can we provably control the generation risks below a desired level? To theoretically analyze the generation risks of RAG and answer the above questions, we propose C-RAG, a novel framework of certified generation risks for RAG models. We first propose a constrained generation protocol for RAG models to produce a controlled set of generations. The pro- tocol operates based on specific parameter configurations, including the number of retrieved examples, the size of the generation set, and a similarity threshold for generation di- versity. We then provide conformal analysis (Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et al., 2021; 2022) for RAG models under the constrained generation protocol, aiming to prov- ably control the generation risks based on test statistics from in-distribution calibration samples. To achieve this goal, we derive a high-probability upper bound of generation risks during inference time, which we call conformal generation risk. We show that (a) the conformal generation risk serves as a sound upper bound to the empirical generation risks given a RAG configuration in Prop. 1; (b) the generation risk can be certifiably controlled below a desired level by computing a valid set of RAG configurations via C-RAG 1 arXiv:2402.03181v5 [cs.AI] 30 Jul 2024 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models in Prop. 2; (c) the conformal analysis can be extended to more complex scenarios under test-time distribution shifts in Thm. 2, which presents the first generation risk guarantee under test-time distribution shifts for general bounded risk functions. Based on our conformal analysis for the genera- tion risks of RAG and vanilla LLMs, we prove that (a) the conformal generation risk of RAG is lower than that of the corresponding vanilla LLM in Thm. 1; (b) under bounded test-time distribution shifts, RAG also lowers the conformal generation risks compared to the vanilla LLM in Thm. 3. We evaluate the conformal generation risk guarantees of C-RAG with different retrieval models on four widely-used datasets. For all retrieval methods and datasets, we empiri- cally validate that our conformal generation risk guarantees are sound and tight even with distribution shifts, as they upper bound the empirical generation risks observed on random test sets while maintaining only a minimal gap, nar- rowing down to the scale of 1e −3. We empirically show that RAG consistently achieves a lower conformal gener- ation risk than a single LLM without retrieval, which is consistent with our theoretical findings in Secs. 5 and 6. We also evaluate the conformal generation risk for different SOTA retrieval models, such as sparse encoding metrics BM25 (Robertson et al., 2009), text-embedding-ada-002 model from OpenAI, bge model from BAAI (Zhang et al., 2023a), and supervised fine-tuned embedding model (Wang et al., 2023c) to validate our analysis on retrieval quality. We show that among these models, text-embedding-ada-002 and supervised fine-tuned embedding models