as: z = k−1 X j=0 ewej · Eej(x). (2) Aside from these specified mechanisms, the remain- ing aspects of the MoE network mirror those of a standard decoder-only Transformer model. 3.2 Post-training Expert Pruning As demonstrated in the preliminary subsection, the parameters of experts occupy the major propor- tion of the whole MoE LLM model. However, for a single token, only a small subset of these 1ej is the index of the j-th largest element of w, i.e. the index of the j-th selected expert expert expert expert expert expert expert cached-input cached-output output loss MoE Layer expert expert expert expert expert expert expert expert input output MoE Layer w! w" 𝛽 (a) (b) w! w" “the” “quick” “brown” “fox” … expert expert expert expert expert expert expert expert input output w! 𝛽 “the” “quick” “brown” “fox” … w"/w! < 𝛽 w!/w# ≥𝛽 w# … Figure 3: Framework of our proposed expert pruning and dynamic skipping methods. (a) The expert pruning method evaluates the contributions of experts via a small calibration dataset and then permanently discards those with low contributions (e.g., experts with a slashed background). (b) The dynamic skipping method discard no experts instead dynamically decides whether to skip certain experts (e.g., experts with a yellow background) during inference. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Layer Index 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Experts to Prune C4 MATH Figure 4: Expert selection comparison between C4 and MATH dataset with r = 6 for Mixtral 8x7B model. Significant divergence is observed in the selection of experts across these two datasets, and identical expert combinations are observed in only four specific layers (i.e., layer 2, layer 4, layer16, and layer 31). experts are activated, leading to considerable inef- ficiencies in parameter utilization. Existing post- training weight pruning methods for LLMs (e.g., Wanda (Sun et al., 2023), SparseGPT (Frantar and Alistarh, 2023)), while effective in reducing model parameters, do not support efficient deployment of MoE LLMs without specialized hardware imple- mentations (Mishra et al., 2021). Therefore, we introduce a heuristic search method to prune the number of experts in a post-training manner. Task-agnostic Expert Pruning for General Tasks. Different from existing pruning schemes leveraging unstructured or semi-structured weight sparsity (Sun et al., 2023; Frantar and Alistarh, 2023) for LLMs, our proposed post-training expert pruning method aims at reducing the parameter numbers of MoE LLMs by permanently discard- ing less important experts, thereby improve the inference efficiency. It is a post-training pruning method and does not require any parameter update. Fig. 3 (a) illustrates our proposed post-training ex- pert pruning method. We conduct expert pruning in a layer-wise manner. Specifically, the pruning method contains two steps as follows. Firstly, we set up a small calibration dataset, then perform inference on the original MoE model with all experts over the dataset, and cache the input-