trends in language modeling have moved towards training large models on large datasets, which is referred to as “pretraining.” These models are then transferred to unseen datasets and tasks, and, without much or any additional training, demonstrate the capacity to perform well on those “downstream” tasks [2, 51]. In the decoder-only auto-regressive language modeling conﬁguration we study here, the most impressive results have been achieved by GPT-3 [7], which showed that large language models can exhibit strong performance on unseen tasks given only one example – referred to as “one-shot” learning. In this section, we demonstrate that Primer’s training compute savings stretch beyond reaching a target pretraining perplexity and indeed transfer to downstream one-shot task performance. To do this, we replicate the GPT-3 pretraining and one-shot evaluation setup. This replication is not exactly the same as the one used for GPT-3 because GPT-3 was not open sourced. Thus, these 9 experiments are not meant to compare directly to GPT-3, as there are conﬁguration differences. Instead, these experiments are used as a controlled comparison of the Transformer and Primer architectures. We conduct these experiments in the Lingvo codebase using a proprietary pretraining dataset. The downstream tasks are conﬁgured in the same one-shot way described by Brown et al. [7], with single preﬁx examples fed into each model with each task’s inputs. We compare (1) a baseline 1.9B parameter Transformer (dmodel = 2048, dff = 12288, L = 24) with GELU activations, meant to approximate the GPT-3 XL architecture, and (2) a full Primer without shared QK representations, which only hurt performance according to Appendix A.7. Each model is trained using batches of ∼2M tokens using 512 TPUv4 chips for ∼140 hours (∼71.8K total accelerator hours or ∼1M train steps). We once again use the T5 training hyperparemeters without any additional tuning. 0 36000 72000 TPUv4 Hours 19 16 13 Negative PPLX One-Shot Pretraining Transformer Primer -16 -13 Neg PPLX Pretraining 29 37 Average Score One-Shot QA Tasks 52 57 Average Score One-Shot Multi-Choice Tasks Transf. 24K Hrs Transf. 72K Hrs Primer 24K Hrs Primer 72K Hrs Figure 11: Comparison between Transformer+GELU and Primer at 1.9B parameters and varying training compute budgets on downstream one-shot tasks, similar to GPT-3. Primer achieves slightly better performance than Transformer when given 3X less pretraining compute and substantially better performance when given the same pretraining compute. Here we stop at 72K TPUv4 hours to roughly match the quality of GPT-3 XL, but the compute savings of Primer would be larger if we let the two models run longer (see Figure 10). Note, this is a crude comparison that uses averaged scores from the 27 one-shot tasks we evaluate. See Appendix A.11 (Table 6 and Figure 27) for exact task scores. Figure 11 shows that Primer achieves the same pretraining perplexity and one-shot downstream performance as Transformer+GELU while using 3X less compute. Table 6 in the Appendix gives the exact performance numbers for each of the 27 evaluated downstream tasks. Primer, despite using 3X less compute, outperforms