Not All Experts are Equal: Efficient Expert Pruning and Skipping for Mixture-of-Experts Large Language Models Xudong Lu∗1, Qi Liu∗2,4, Yuhui Xu3, Aojun Zhou‡1, Siyuan Huang2,4 Bo Zhang4, Junchi Yan2,4, Hongsheng Li†1,5 1CUHK MMLab 2Shanghai Jiao Tong University 3Salesforce AI Research 4Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory 5CPII under InnoHK {luxudong@link,hsli@ee}.cuhk.edu.hk purewhite@sjtu.edu.cn {xyh6666,aojunzhou}@gmail.com Abstract A pivotal advancement in the progress of large language models (LLMs) is the emergence of the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLMs. Com- pared to traditional LLMs, MoE LLMs can achieve higher performance with fewer ac- tive parameters, but it is still hard to deploy them due to their immense parameter sizes. Different from previous weight pruning meth- ods that rely on specifically designed hard- ware, this paper mainly aims to enhance the deployment efficiency of MoE LLMs by in- troducing plug-and-play expert-level sparsifi- cation techniques. Specifically, we propose, for the first time to our best knowledge, post- training approaches for task-agnostic and task- specific expert pruning and skipping of MoE LLMs, tailored to improve deployment effi- ciency while maintaining model performance across a wide range of tasks. Extensive experi- ments show that our proposed methods can si- multaneously reduce model sizes and increase the inference speed, while maintaining satis- factory performance. Code will be made avail- able at https://github.com/Lucky-Lance/ Expert_Sparsity. 1 Introduction Large language models (LLMs) have shown re- markable abilities across various domains (Ope- nAI, 2023; Zhou et al., 2024), as evidenced by the widespread use of ChatGPT and Gem- ini (Team et al., 2023). Recent notable advance- ment in this area is the introduction of the open- sourced Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) LLM, Mixtral 8x7B (Jiang et al., 2024), which sparsely activates only a portion of its parameters during the training and inference process. This model surpasses the performance of dense Transformer-based LLMs, such as LLaMA-2 70B (Touvron et al., 2023a,b), ∗Equal contribution †Corresponding author ‡Project lead with fewer active parameters (13B) during infer- ence. MoE LLMs achieve a reduction in on-the-fly (active) parameters by choosing only top-k experts for the inference of each token, thereby enhancing inference speed (Sanseviero et al., 2023). However, the static parameters, particularly those required for constructing the MoE architecture, still demand considerable memory and storage for deployment. For example, loading the Mixtral 8x7B model in bf16 format requires at least two A100-80G GPUs. Notably, in this MoE model, the eight experts con- stitute around 96% (45B out of 47B) of the total number of parameters. On the other hand, not all experts are equal in the MoE model. Recent studies, such as (Chi et al., 2022), have demonstrated this discrepancy in ex- pert training outcomes. The differing levels of train- ing among each expert highlight the importance and practicality of identifying and pruning less sig- nificant experts, thereby improving the deployment efficiency of MoE models. Unlike existing post-training weight pruning schemes for LLMs, which primarily target un- structured sparsity and N:M semi-structured spar- sity (Sun et al., 2023; Frantar and Alistarh, 2023), our approach focuses on expert-level sparsity for model sparsification. The aforementioned fine- grained