arXiv:2405.11357v3 [cs.CL] 23 Jul 2024 Large Language Models Lack Understanding of Character Composition of Words Andrew Shin 1 Kunitake Kaneko 1 Abstract Large language models (LLMs) have demon- strated remarkable performances on a wide range of natural language tasks. Yet, LLMs’ successes have been largely restricted to tasks concerning words, sentences, or documents, and it remains questionable how much they understand the min- imal units of text, namely characters. In this pa- per, we examine contemporary LLMs regarding their ability to understand character composition of words, and show that most of them fail to re- liably carry out even the simple tasks that can be handled by humans with perfection. We an- alyze their behaviors with comparison to token level performances, and discuss the potential di- rections for future research. 1. Introduction Large language models (LLMs) (Achiam et al., 2023; Chowdhery et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023; Reid et al., 2024; OpenAI, 2022; Jiang et al., 2023) have exhibited out- standing performance across a diverse array of natural lan- guage tasks. It has largely outperformed pre-LLM ap- proaches on benchmark tasks, such as GLUE (Wang et al., 2018) and SuperGLUE (Wang et al., 2019), often surpass- ing humans on a number of tasks (Chowdhery et al., 2022). It is noteworthy that most of the tasks upon which LLMs have been tested revolve around words, sentences, or pas- sages, but hardly involve character-level understanding. In- tuitively, character-level tasks should be much easier to tackle, as they rarely deal with complex semantics, gram- matical structures, or background knowledge, while only requiring highly elementary understanding of characters and, depending on the task, simple counting. Indeed, humans are able to perform basic character-level tasks very easily as we will see in Sec 3.2. It has also been known that LLMs hardly make spelling errors and can 1Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan. Correspondence to: Andrew Shin <shin@inl.ics.keio.ac.jp>. be used for spelling correction of human-written passages (Whittaker & Kitagishi, 2024). Surprisingly, however, our examination shows that LLMs struggle with very simple tasks involving character composition, severely underper- forming humans, making a striking contrast with their per- formance on more complex tasks at token level. Humans are able to instantly recognize which characters constitute a given word. However, large language mod- els, most of which are trained at token-level, struggle to grasp the nuances of character composition within words. This difﬁculty arises from the fact that LLMs primarily learn at the token level, where words are treated as indivisi- ble units separated by spaces or punctuation marks. Con- sequently, LLMs lack the ﬁne-grained understanding of character-level relationships and morphology that humans possess. Understanding character composition is crucial for various linguistic tasks, including morphological anal- ysis, semantic interpretation, and language generation. As such, addressing the challenge of character composition is essential for enhancing the reliability of LLMs across a di- verse range of languages and writing systems. In this paper, we examine LLMs with a number of simple tasks designed to test the