Layer (r) Number of Preserved Experts Each Layer (r) Figure 1: Memory usage reduction (bf16) and inference speedup illustration of our proposed post-training expert pruning and dynamic (expert) skipping methods on the Mixtral 8x7B (Jiang et al., 2024) model. Our method greatly reduces memory consumption and enhances inference speed. expert expert expert expert expert expert expert expert MoE Layer ⨁ input output router ⋅#w! ⋅#w" w" w# w$ w! w% w& w' w( topk=2 Figure 2: Illustration of the MoE layer in the Mixtral 8x7B model for per-token inference. The output of the layer is the weighted sum of the outputs from selected experts over input token x. ewi denotes the normalized routing weight of each selected expert. layers in the LLMs and require dedicated hardware. To the best of our knowledge, efficient post-training expert pruning methods have not been discussed for decoder-only LLMs with MoE structures. 3 Method To enhance the deployment efficiency of MoE LLMs, we concentrate on expert-level model spar- sity and innovatively propose post-training tech- niques designed to reduce memory usage and in- crease inference speed. In this section, we offer a comprehensive explanation of our proposed meth- ods for expert pruning (Sec. 3.2) and dynamic (ex- pert) skipping (Sec. 3.3), considering both memory consumption and inference speed. 3.1 Preliminary In the decoder-only sparse MoE Transformer mod- els, as discussed in (Gale et al., 2023), the Feed- Forward Network (FFN) sub-layers of the tradi- tional dense model are replaced with MoE layers, each containing n experts. Specifically, within the MoE layer of the Mixtral 8x7B model, featuring 8 experts as detailed in (Jiang et al., 2024), each token x in the input sequence is routed to the top-2 experts based on the routing weights w. The inference process for each input token x within the MoE layer of the Mixtral 8x7B decoder layer is depicted in Fig. 2. Initially, the router com- putes routing logits l = {l0, . . . , ln−1} and routing weights w = Softmax(l) for the experts. Then the top-k experts, where k = 2 for the Mixtral 8x7B model, are selected based on their routing weights to process the token. Each of these k se- lected experts, applying a SwiGLU transformation Ei(·) (i ∈{0, 1, . . . , n −1}), contributes to the fi- nal output. This output is a weighted sum of the individual expert outputs, with weights ewi being the normalized values of the corresponding routing weights for the selected experts. The normalized weight for expert ej (j ∈{0, 1, . . . , k −1})1 is calculated as follows: ewej = wej Pk−1 m=0 wem , (1) yielding the MoE layer’s output for the token x as: z = k−1 X j=0 ewej · Eej(x). (2) Aside from these specified mechanisms, the remain- ing aspects of the MoE network mirror those of a standard decoder-only Transformer model. 3.2 Post-training Expert Pruning As demonstrated in the preliminary subsection, the parameters of experts occupy the major propor- tion