to convert images or speech into natural language in an offline manner, such as Next-GPT (Wu et al., 2023b), SpeechGPT (Zhang et al., 2023a) and AudioGPT (Huang et al., 2023). Contrary to these works mentioned above, we tokenize the input from any modality into a token sequence and train a token-in-token-out MM-LLM designed to seamlessly handle the token input and output in any combination of three modalities: text, image, and audio. 2.2 NON-TEXTUAL DISCRETIZATION In addition to directly integrating multi-modal modules or using offline expert models, there are also efforts focused on non-textual discretization, which employs tokenizers to convert continuous images or audio into token sequences. This way, all modalities share the same form as tokens, which can be better compatible with LLM. Next, we will introduce two mainstream methods of Non-textual discretization. VQ-VAEs Vector Quantised Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE) (Van Den Oord et al., 2017) is a seminal contribution in the field of non-textual tokenization, which incorporates vector quantization (VQ) to learn discrete representations and converts images into a sequence of discrete codes. In the vision domain, VQGAN (Esser et al., 2021) follows the idea, using a codebook to discretely encode images, and employs Transformer as the encoder. ViT-VQGAN (Yu et al., 2021) introduces several enhancements to the vanilla VQGAN, encompassing architectural modifications and advancements in codebook learning. BEiT-V2 (Peng et al., 2022) proposes Vector-quantized Knowledge Distilla- tion (VQ-KD) to train a semantic-rich visual tokenizer by reconstructing high-level features from the teacher model. Ge et al. (2023) proposes SEED and claims two principles for the tokenizer architec- ture and training that can ease the alignment with LLMs. Yu et al. (2023a) introduce SPAE, which can convert between raw pixels and lexical tokens extracted from the LLM’s vocabulary, enabling frozen LLMs to understand and generate images or videos. For the audio, Dieleman et al. (2018) utilize autoregressive discrete autoencoders (ADAs) to capture correlations in waveforms. Jukebox (Dhariwal et al., 2020) uses a multi-scale VQ-VAE to compress music to discrete codes and model those using autoregressive Transformers, which can generate music with singing in the raw audio domain. SoundStream (Zeghidour et al., 2021) employs a model architecture composed of a fully convolutional encoder/decoder network and adopts a Residual Vector Quantizer (RVQ) to project the audio embedding in a codebook of a given size. D´efossez et al. (2022), Jiang et al. (2022) also adopt RVQ to quantize the output of the encoder. Clustering Except for those methods that use trained specialized vector quantization (VQ) mod- ules as tokenizers, some works (Lakhotia et al., 2021; Kharitonov et al., 2022) apply the clustering algorithms to the features, and the cluster indices are directly used as the discrete tokens for speech. The cluster approach typically relies on self-supervised learning models, such as HuBERT (Hsu et al., 2021), W2V-BERT (Chung et al., 2021; Borsos et al., 2023), USM (Zhang et al., 2023e; Rubenstein et al., 2023), which are trained for discrimination or masking prediction and maintain semantic information of the speech. Compared with neural VQ-based tokenizers, the