and tackling emerging challenges. Recent works such as Toolformer (Schick et al., 2023), ToolLLM (Qin et al., 2023), API-Bank (Li et al., 2023), and RestGPT (Song et al., 2023) demonstrate the potential of LLMs to autonomously leverage external tools and APIs, thus broadening their operational scope across various domains. LATM (Cai et al., 2023), which enables LLMs to create their own tools, and GeneGPT’s (Jin et al., 2023) domain-specific applications illustrate the expanding problem-solving capacities and efficiencies of LLMs. The integration process also brings significant security and ethical considerations to the forefront. Efforts by Gorilla (Patil et al., 2023) and LLMDet (Wu et al., 2023) to refine the precision of API calls and identify model-generated content underscore the critical need for mechanisms that ensure the responsible use of AI technologies. These contributions emphasize the importance of developing robust frameworks to mitigate risks associated with misinformation, misuse, and data privacy in deploying LLMs with third-party APIs. Attacks The surprisingly advanced performance of LLMs provides users with various high quality services, even security vulnerabilities detection for code repository (Yao et al., 2023). However, the security concerns should be emphasised. Li et al. (2020) proposed to use another LM BERT to mislead other deep neural models. The security risk of LLM is stressed by many prompt-based adversarial attacks. These attacks are mainly conducted by injecting pre-constructed prompts to LLMs in order to deceive LLM (Liu et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2023). Apart from that, Wang et al. (2023) attacks the performance of LLMs regarding the classical text classification task for GLUE dataset by leveraging an adversarial GLUE dataset AdvGLUE++. Pedro et al. (2023) evaluates the vulnerabilities of LLM-integrated web applications under the attacks which executes SQL injection through prompt injection. In addition, The security and privacy issues of OpenAI’s ChatGPT plugins are systematically assessed by Iqbal et al. (2023), with their constructed framework applied. B EVALUATION METRICS DESCRIPTION We present the calculation of ASR for each attack below: • ASR for Insertion: This metric quantifies the attack’s ability to integrate additional, misleading information into the model’s responses. It is calculated by tracking the instances where extraneous elements are successfully inserted into the model’s output and fail to be recognized as such by the model. ASR = # of Successful Insertions # of Valid Instances • ASR for Deletion: This metric measures the attack’s success in removing crucial information from the input the model fails to recall or compensate for in its response. It is determined by the ratio of instances where essential information is effectively deleted, and the model does not identify or correct the omission. 9 Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models ASR = # of Successful Deletions # of Valid Instances • ASR for Substitution: ASR for substitution is conceived to offer a balanced evaluation of the attack’s overall ability to manage both the addition and omission of information. It is defined as the harmonic mean of ASRs for insertion and deletion, similar to