expand the corpus and divided it into 4 testbeds to evaluate the above basic abilities of LLMs. To evaluate the noise robustness, we sample varying numbers of negative documents ac- cording to the desired ratio of noises. For negative rejec- tion, all the external documents are sampled from negative documents. For the information integration ability, we fur- ther construct data based on the above generated questions. This involves expanding or rewriting these questions so that their answers encompass multiple aspects. For example, the question “Who won the MVP of Super Bowl 2023?” can be rewrite as “Who won the MVPs of Super Bowl 2022 and 2023?”. Consequently, answering such questions re- 2Chinese: https://huggingface.co/moka-ai/m3e-base; English: https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2. System instruction You are an accurate and reliable AI assistant that can answer questions with the help of external documents. Please note that external documents may contain noisy or factually incorrect information. If the information in the document contains the correct answer, you will give an accurate answer. If the information in the document does not contain the answer, you will generate ’I can not answer the question because of the insufficient information in documents.‘ If there are inconsistencies with the facts in some of the documents, please generate the response 'There are factual errors in the provided documents.' and provide the correct answer. User input Instruction Document:\n{DOCS} \n\nQuestion:\n{QUERY} System instruction 你是一个准确和可靠的人工智能助手， 能够借助外部文档回答问题，请注意 外部文档可能存在噪声事实性错误。 如果文档中的信息包含了正确答案， 你将进行准确的回答。如果文档中的 信息不包含答案，你将生成“文档信 息不足，因此我无法基于提供的文档 回答该问题。”如果部分文档中存在 与事实不一致的错误，请先生成“提 供文档的文档存在事实性错误。”， 并生成正确答案。 User input Instruction 文档：\n{DOCS} \n\n问题：\n{QUERY} English Chinese Figure 3: The instructions used in our experiments, which include a system instruction followed by a user input instruc- tion. The “{DOCS}” and “{QUERY}” will be replaced by the external documents and the question. quires utilizing information from various documents. Dif- ferent from the first three abilities, the data of counterfactual robustness is constructed solely based on the internal knowl- edge of the model. Based on the aforementioned generated questions mentioned above, we adopt ChatGPT to automat- ically generate its known knowledge. Specifically, we use prompts to allow the model to generate both questions and answers that are already known. For example, based on the question “Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Phys- iology and Medicine?”, the model will generate the known question “Who was awarded the 2021 Nobel Prize in Lit- erature?” and answer “Abdulrazak Gurnah”. We then man- ually verified the generated answers, and retrieve relevant documents as described above. In order to make documents contain factual errors, we manually modify the answers and replace the corresponding parts in the document. Finally, we collect totally 600 base questions in RGB, and 200 additional questions for the information integration ability and 200 additional questions for counterfactual ro- bustness ability. Half of the instances are in English, and the other half are in Chinese. Evaluation metrics The core of this benchmark is to evaluate whether LLMs can utilize the provided external documents to acquire knowl- edge and generate reasonable answers. We evaluate the re- sponses of LLMs in order to measure above-mentioned four abilities