both Top-1 and Top-3 retrieval methods exhibit comparable performance. For enhanced efficiency, we default to Top-1 retrieval in the rest of the paper. 3.2 Agent-S: Selecting a Database Partition During the training process of an Agent-S to select a partition from D, the environment is naturally modeled as a bandit setting. In this context, when a random partition is selected, the language model generates a response for the query with feedback (typically based on a specific performance metric), and concludes the episode. The selection process can be formulated as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), involving states, actions, and rewards. States. Given a training pair (x, y) and a set of database partitions D = {Dm}|M| m=1, the state s(S) is defined by assessing the semantic relevance, typ- ically quantified by measures such as cosine sim- ilarity sim(·, ·), between the input (x, y) and the stored memories (˜x, ˜y) within each Dm. s(S) = { max (˜x,˜y)∈Dm sim(σ(˜x ⊕˜y), σ(x ⊕y))}|M| m=1, (1) where ⊕denotes the concatenation operation, and σ(·) denotes an embedded model utilized to obtain text representations, such as the CPT-Text (Nee- lakantan et al., 2022). We consider the Top-1 re- trieved memories to construct the state. Actions. Let a(S) represent an action undertaken by Agent-S. The design of actions corresponds to that of the state s(S). Specifically, the actions are defined as follows: a(S) = m (1 ≤m ≤M), (2) where action a(S) = m means to select the Dm for subsequent the generation task. Rewards. The reward is denoted by r(S). When the action a(S) involves exploring a partition, the reward cannot be immediately observed, as no re- sponse has been received for the query x. However, when the action involves selecting a partition for Agent-R to refine the memories within the partition, the stored response ˜y is updated, and some reward signal can be obtained (for example, by measuring the difference between the results on the original memory and that on the refined memory). There- fore, we make Agent-S and Agent-R are trained with multi-agent reinforcement learning, since they cooperate towards the same objective of learning a policy that produces a response (hypothesis) as similar as possible to the reference y for the x. 3.3 Agent-R: Refining Memories in the Selected Partition Next, we formulate the task of refining the retrieved memories carried out by Agent-R within a selected partition. To accomplish this, Agent-R explores potential responses denoted by ˆy through LLMs for the retrieved ˜x, and generates a candidate pool C = {ˆyk ←LLM(˜x)}|K| k=1 for selection, where K denotes the number of candidates. Upon select- ing a candidate, Agent-R evaluates its quality by demonstrating the new memory (˜x, ˆyk) to generate a hypothesis h ←LLM(x ⊕(˜x, ˆyk)). In summary, a high-quality hypothesis h benefits from superior memory, which can be then refined through the pro- duced hypothesis for subsequent selections. Con- sequently, Agent-R iterates in a boosting process optimized via reinforcement learning, where the states, actions, and rewards are detailed below. States. The