model, we opted for Claude for data generation for several reasons. First, Claude has demonstrated superior ability in following complex instructions and maintaining consistent quality (Huang et al., 2024). Additionally it shows good performance on German language understanding (Park et al., 2024). Second, as a larger model with a broader training data coverage, it allows for more nuanced and authentic generation of German learner texts (Kim et al., 2024). The prompt engineering process for data generation underwent several iterations until a desired output quality was reached. Initial attempts produced texts that were too simplistic or thematically biased toward primary school topics. To overcome this, we refined the approach and adjusted the prompts to avoid stereotypical beginner subjects, incorporated explicit CEFR A1 criteria from the Goethe Institute, and used prompts written in German, which produced noticeably improved results. The final prompt is included in the appendix (appendix section A). Using this approach, we generated 122 synthetic texts. Each sample was manually reviewed to ensure appropriateness and quality before inclusion in the dataset. The final dataset consists of 1,567 texts spanning across all six CEFR levels (A1-C2). Table 1 shows the distribution of texts by source and level. 3.2 Prompt Engineering for CEFR Classification We developed and refined a prompting strategy through several iterations, each aimed at improving the model’s clas- sification accuracy. Prompt engineering plays a crucial role in aligning the model’s behavior with the task objective by structuring inputs and instructions in a way that leverages the model’s internal representations (White et al., 2023). A well-designed prompt should guide the model to focus on relevant textual features in order to produce consistent label predictions, even without access to explicit training signals. In particular, prompts should clearly define the task as well as the expected output format to ensure reliable and interpretable model responses. We started with an English base prompt (see Appendix D for full prompts, Table 8) that formulates the classification task in explicit terms: it instructs the model to assess a given text and assign a proficiency level according to the CEFR scale. The prompt specifies both the decision criterion (CEFR classification) and the required response format (a single level label, such as A1–C2), ensuring that the model focuses on the intended task and avoids generating additional explanations. Next, we switched to German language prompts as Pires et al. found (Pires et al., 2019) that LLMs often show a better performance when the prompt language matches the task language. In initial tests, the model frequently included justi- fications for its classification when using the German prompt. This might skew the results and, therefore, we appended an instruction that the model should suppress any additional explanation or reasoning for the classification. The fi- nal German prompt (German zero-shot prompt, given in Appendix D, Table 8) emphasizes both the classification standard and the required output format, helping to reduce noise in the model’s predictions. Building on this, we implemented a few-shot prompting strategy (German few-shot prompt, see Table 8 in