we use N = 128. A further optimization takes advantage of the monotonicity of Algorithm 1: the matching score is non-increasing as we increase the y lower bound and decrease the y upper bound. Therefore, we can use the Divide-and-Conquer optimization for dynamic program- ming problems to speed this up to O(MN log N ·O(Algo 1)). Finally, we employ binary search to find the largest y lower- bound for the first and the smallest y upperbound for the last line item to tighten the bounds. III. GENERAL LINE ITEMS RECOGNITION METRIC The goal of LIR is to extract information into an ordered list of line items where each line item corresponds to a row in a table and is formatted into column key-value pairs. In this section, we will derive a new metric class for LIR. A metric for LIR should have the following attributes: 1) Subtask Isolation: Performance on the subtasks must be measured separately. 2) Cell Isolation: A True Positive corresponds to exactly one predicted cell and one ground truth cell. 3) Cell Completeness: Hallucinated cells are counted as False Positives. Missing cells are counted as False Negatives. 4) Cell Similarity-Measure Flexibility: Within the same subtask, the metric must support multiple cell similarity measures. 5) Cell Row-Position Invariance: The credit given to a correctly predicted cell is the same regardless of absolute row position. 6) Row-Order Preservation: For any two predicted rows, their relative order and the relative order of their matching ground truth rows must be the same. 7) Column-Permutation Invariance: The metric must be invari- ant to column shuffling. Attribute #1 is important because we do not often need both the cell content and location information for downstream tasks. Attributes #2 and #3 are so that we can have an F1-score-like metric that penalizes both over-extraction and under-extraction of cells. Attribute #4 is so the metric can be extended to support multiple similarity measures more appropriate for downstream tasks. Attribute #5 is relevant in cases where there are extra or missing rows in the predictions. We only want to penalize such rows, not the rows with matching ground truth. Attribute #6 is important because there are documents where the order of the rows matter. For example, documents where transactions are ordered by time. And finally, Attribute #7 is an ideal attribute because the order of the columns do not often matter when applying business logic to the line items. Downstream programs often then save the results (and the extracted data) to column- invariant SQL-like databases. A. Limitations of Current Line Items Recognition Metrics ANLS* and the DocILE metric use Maximum-Weight Bi- partite Matching-based algorithms for row-matching [9] [10]. Thus, they do not satisfy attribute #6. Furthermore, the latter supports both cell content and cell location recognition but does not isolate the two–violating attribute #1. This makes it impossible to use for cell content recognition only or cell location recognition only tasks. GriTS satisfies all of the attributes above except for attribute #7 [2]. For the rest