of the tree affect the per- formance. As shown by Table 6, we conducted the experiment at different tree depths and widths and drew the following conclusions: 1) As the tree depth increases, our framework retrieves more paragraphs and obtains more evidence, leading to an improvement in retrieval and generation met- rics. However, the number of calls also increases non-linearly. This is because our framework gener- ates more feasible paths through node expansion. As this expansion grows exponentially with the in- crease in tree depth, we need to reasonably limit the depth of the tree to ensure search efficiency. 2) The effective call rate decreases with the deepening of the tree depth. Even though repetitive pruning reduces the repetitive calls of accepted paragraphs, it cannot avoid some unaccepted paragraphs be- ing reviewed multiple times. This phenomenon is amplified with the increase in tree depth. 3) By expanding the breadth of each tree layer, our frame- work can retrieve more paragraphs and obtain more evidence while ensuring an effective call rate. No- tably, its retrieval metrics decrease while its genera- tion metrics improve. We think that the evidence’s proportion of ground truth paragraphs decreases as the breadth increases, leading to fewer recalled ground truth paragraphs at a specific quantity. How- ever, the reader can add more evidence (more than 15) for response generation, thus improving the generation metrics. 4) To balance performance and time cost, we ultimately chose a depth of 3 and widths of 5, 3, and 3. 5 Conclusion This paper proposes TOR, a tree-structured dy- namic retrieval framework for multi-hop question- answering tasks. This framework leverages the tree structure and the chain-of-thought capability of Large Language Models(LLMs) to dynamically explore multiple feasible reasoning paths. Experi- mental results demonstrate that the method effec- tively explores more diverse reasoning paths while 8 reducing ineffective path expansion. We believe that TOR can serve as a robust baseline model for future research in multi-hop question-answering tasks. Moreover, we hope our framework can be extended to more complex reasoning tasks. Limitations TOR has requirements for the capabilities of the base models, including 1) The model should have zero-shot or few-shot CoT reasoning abilities. 2) The model should support long-text inputs, as we need to include retrieved paragraphs and few-shot demonstrations in the prompts. 3) The model should have good instruction-following capabili- ties, as Paragraph Reviews require the model to output intermediate results step-by-step according to the instructions. The model needs to understand the instructions and output in a specific format. Regarding the results returned by LLM, we will parse them according to its prompt. The parsing will fail if the model fails to generate results in that format. The parsing success rate represents LLM’s ability to follow complex instructions. Mod- els that meet our requirements tend to have a larger number of parameters. In contrast, smaller models (with fewer than 20B parameters) often lack sat- isfactory instruction-following capabilities for our tasks. (with the parsing success rates of output be- low 85%, compared to