{agree, disagree, discuss, or unrelated}” (Küçük and Can, 2020). Datasets Unified-FC dataset consists of claims collected from Verify.sy (false claims) and Reuters (true claims), which resulted in 422 claims. Based on these claims documents are collected using Google custom search API and filtered by com- puting claim-documents similarity (Baly et al., 2018b). This approach resulted in 3,042 claim- documents pairs, which are then annotated for stance (agree, disagree, discuss, unrelated) by Ap- pen crowd-sourcing platform. ANS Khouja (2020) developed a dataset by first sampling news titles from Arabic News Texts (ANT) corpus (Chouigui et al., 2017) and then gen- erating true and false claims. From these claims stance (three classes – agree, disagree, other) is annotated from a pair of sentences using Amazon Mechanical Turk and Upwork. The dataset consists of 3,786 claim-reference pairs. ArSarcasm Abu Farha and Magdy (2020) de- veloped an Arabic sarcasm detection dataset. The dataset was created using previously available Ara- bic sentiment analysis datasets (Rosenthal et al., 2017; Nabil et al., 2015) and adds sarcasm and di- alect labels to them. The dataset contains 10,547 tweets, 1,682 of which are sarcastic. The training set contains 8,437 tweets, while the test set contains 2,110 tweets. ArSarcasm-v2 This dataset is an extension of the original ArSarcasm dataset published along with the paper (Farha and Magdy, 2020). ArSarcasm- v2 conisists of ArSarcasm along with portions of DAICT corpus and some new tweets. Each tweet was annotated for sarcasm, sentiment and dialect. The final dataset consists of 15,548 tweets divided into 12,548 training tweets and 3,000 testing tweets. ArSarcasm-v2 was used and released as a part of the shared task on sarcasm detection and sentiment analysis in Arabic. A.5 News Categorization News text categorization was a popular task in the earlier days of NLP research (Sebastiani, 2002). The idea of to assign a category C = {c1, ...cn} to a document D = {d1, ...dn}. For the news categorization the D is a set of news articles and C is a set of predefined categories. Most often a news article can be categorized into more than one category and the models are trained in a multilabel setting. While earlier work mostly focused on news article, however, lately it has been used for the categorization of tweets in which news articles are shared as a part of a tweet. Datasets Social Media Posts ASND is a News Tweets dataset (Chowdhury et al., 2020a), collected from Aljazeera news channel accounts on Twitter, Face- book, and YouTube. The dataset consists of twelve categories such as art-and-entertainment, business- and-economy, crime-war-conflict, education, envi- ronment, health, human-rights-press-freedom, poli- tics, science-and-technology, spiritual, sports, and (xii) others. We used the test split from each dataset for the evaluation. Arabic News SANAD corpus is a large col- lection of Arabic news articles collected from Akhbarona, AlKhaleej, and AlArabiya (Einea et al., 2019). The dataset has separate collections gath- ered from different news media, each of which has six news categories; namely culture, finance, medi- cal, politics, sports and