external knowledge for a given question. To address question (a), we propose model-based methods to evaluating the answer automatically, simu- lating human annotators in Sec. 3.2. We leverage the evaluator-critic LLM to gauge the adequacy of its internal knowledge. Meanwhile, a natural language inference (NLI) model is employed to measure the sufficiency of external knowledge. Note that this process may be affected by the accuracy of the LLM and the NLI model, but can be replaced by any better model in the future. • Internal Knowledge Evaluating: We capitalize on the inherent capacity of the LLM to determine if a question can be aptly answered using its built-in knowledge. To do this, we present the question 𝑞to the evaluator-critic LLM, which functions as an evaluator here and offers a binary outcome based on: LLMEval-Critic(𝑞, PromptEval), (3) Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore PromptEval: Please act as an evaluator-critic system, determine if you can provide a reliable answer to the {question} based on your own knowledge? • External Knowledge Evaluating: To gauge the adequacy of ex- ternal knowledge sources, we deploy an advanced NLI model TRUE [8] to examine if the retrieved documents, represented as 𝐷𝑞, provide enough information to answer the question. The process is formulated as: 𝑓 h {𝑑𝑖}|𝐷| 𝑖=1 i ,𝑞  , (4) with 𝑓(premise, hypothesis) being the function of the NLI model. It returns a value of 1 if the premise entails the hypothesis, oth- erwise, it returns 0. Upon evaluating through the aforementioned model-based eval- uating methods, we can classify the situation into four categories (as in Sec. 3.2) in an automatic manner. Each situation highlights specific potential sources of errors, leading to varying strategies employed for future planning depending on the identified category. Declarative Knowledge. Addressing question (b), declarative knowledge within MetaRAG is directed towards identifying preva- lent error patterns. This aids in identifying possible pitfalls in the reasoning process. We categorize typical mistakes into three types: • Incomplete Reasoning: This error is the most prevalent in multi- hop QA. It arises when the model fails to utilize all relevant fragments from the given context or does not follow a compre- hensive chain of thought to arrive at the correct answer. • Answer Redundance: This pertains to instances where the model delivers an overly verbose or repetitious answer. Such redun- dancy can arise when the model identifies multiple analogous data points but cannot consolidate them effectively. • Ambiguity Understanding: This error manifests when the model misunderstands the nuances within a query, leading it to generate answers based on related but incorrect references. Relying on declarative knowledge (DK), we invoke the critic functionality of the evaluator-critic LLM to determine if the pro- posed answer falls prey to any of these errors. For each error type, we furnish a description and several examples in the format {Error name - Error description - Examples}. Subsequently, the ques- tion 𝑞, documents 𝐷𝑞, and answer 𝑦are fed into the LLM, function- ing as