from the sociological theoretical approach introduced in Lecture 1. 4The idea of “Fixing” of the technology is introduced in Lecture 9 and the week’s readings. 5 bias in algorithms ground the deceptive behaviours in LLMs, with over-representation of certain content leading to the repetition of misinformation through these models. For instance, content such as drug addiction, homelessness are over-represented in discussing mental illness based on the sociodemographic biases towards mentions of disability (Hutchinson et al., 2020). Definition & Discourse Around Deceptive AI The concept of agent-based or artificial deception originated in the early 2000s with Castelfranchi (2000; 2002), who suggested that computer medium could foster a habit of cheating among individuals. While the transition from user-user deception to user-agent deception is not clear, he predicted that AI would develop deceptive intent, raising fundamental questions about technical prevention and individuals’ awareness. For example, personal assistants, driven by good intent, might engage in deception to protect individuals’ interests against their short-term preferences - an aspect often overlooked in contemporary literature (Castelfranchi and Tan, 2002). Castelfranchi (2000) also delineated various conditions under which agent-user deception occurs, involving instances motivated by the protection of privacy, courtesy, user’s interest, and the safeguarding of collective interests, such as providing misinformation to the public to mitigate panic in emergent situations. Deceptive AI poses an ongoing challenge in the forefront AI development, with projects like Google DeepMind’s “Make-me-say” actively evaluating LLMs for manipulation capabilities (Shevlane et al., 2023). Park et al. (2023) used Shevlane et al.’s (2023) definition of deception in AI and further developed it with new categorisation of deceptive types. This research, conducted in collaboration with OpenAI, Anthropic, and the Centre for the Governance of AI, represents a universally accepted definition among both academia and technology industries. They define skills of deception as: “Constructing believable (but false) statements, making accurate predictions about the effect of a lie on a human, and keeping track of what information it needs to withhold to maintain the deception. The model can impersonate a human effectively (Shevlane et al., 2023, p.5, my emphasis).” This definition characterises deception as a continuous behaviour involving the prediction of the process and results of conveying false beliefs, with an emphasis on the skills of imitation. 6 Definitions are subject to academic debates, and the work of defining relates to types of AI deception tested and categorised. Ward et al. (2023) building on their criticism of the philosophical definition of deception, which posits that deception only occurs if a false belief is successfully believed, defines deception as “intentionally causing someone to have a false belief that is not believed to be true (my emphasis).” This definition considers the situation that a person may believe something is likely false but is not certain and is ignorant about the true belief, including deception by omission. However, the term “intentionally (Ward et al., 2023, p.6)” is substituted with “in order to accomplish some outcome (Our Research on Strategic Deception Presented at the UK’s AI Safety Summit, 2023),” by the