space. FWD captures both spatial and frequency information without relying on pre-trained networks, making it domain-agnostic and robust to domain shifts across various image types. For all three metrics, lower scores indicate higher-quality image generation, with both CMMD and FWD particularly effective in capturing distortions in generated images in ways that better correlate with human judgements. 4https://huggingface.co/datasets/brivangl/midjourney-v6-llava 16 C Experiment Results and Discussion C.1 Accuracy of Patch-based Autoregressive Retrieval Figure 6: l2 distance between ground-truth tokens and top-10 retrieved tokens (blue line) compared to randomly sampled tokens (red dashed line). The curved arrow indicates a broken y-axis that accom- modates the large gap between the retrieved token and the random token baseline. To assess the effectiveness of our patch-level autoregressive retrieval mechanism, we conduct a comparative analysis between the top-K re- trieved image tokens and the ground-truth to- kens to be generated. Specifically, we randomly sampled 1, 000 instances from our training set, each comprising 576 image tokens and 576 × k retrieved tokens. To demonstrate the accuracy of the retrieved image tokens, for each ground- truth image token, we also randomly sample a vocabulary code as non-relevant tokens. Us- ing the shared codebook, we transform all im- age tokens into vector representations and com- pute the l2 distances between each ground-truth image token and its top-K retrieved counter- parts. Similarly, we also compute the mean of the l2 distance between each ground-truth token and the randomly sampled tokens. As shown in Figure 6, the l2 distance between retrieved tokens and ground-truth image tokens is signif- icantly smaller than the distance between ran- domly sampled tokens and ground-truth tokens. As k increases, the distance between the k-th retrieved token and the ground-truth token also increases, demonstrating the effectiveness of the retrieval approach and our assumption that image patches with similar neighbors usually exhibit inherent similarities. C.2 Hyperparameter Optimization Figure 7: Hyperparameter optimization results for DAiD and FAiD on FID scores. Left: FID scores for DAiD across different combinations of retrieval temperature τ and merging weight λ. Right: FID scores for FAiD across varying levels of hop h and numbers of blender modules b. All experiments conducted on the Midjourney-10K benchmark, with optimal configurations highlighted by red borders. Both DAiD and FAiD require careful optimization of distinct sets of hyperparameters. For DAiD, we optimize the retrieval temperature τ and merging weight λ, which control the retrieval-based probability distribution sharpness and the balance between retrieval and model predictions, respec- tively. For FAiD, we focus on the level of hop (h) and number of blender modules (b), determining the spatial context incorporated during retrieval and extent of feature blending. To identify optimal 17 configurations, we conducted a systematic ablation study on the Midjourney-10K benchmark using Fréchet Inception Distance (FID) as the performance metric. Figure 7 presents the FID scores for DAiD across different combinations of λ and τ, and for FAiD across varying levels of (h) and (b), where composite hop levels such as “12” indicate combined use of multiple hop distances. Analysis