RAMO: Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Enhancing MOOCs Recommendations ∗ Jiarui Rao Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 jiaruira@andrew.cmu.edu Jionghao Lin Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 jionghal@andrew.cmu.edu ABSTRACT Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) have significantly enhanced educational accessibility by offering a wide vari- ety of courses and breaking down traditional barriers re- lated to geography, finance, and time. However, students of- ten face difficulties navigating the vast selection of courses, especially when exploring new fields of study. Driven by this challenge, researchers have been exploring course rec- ommender systems to offer tailored guidance that aligns with individual learning preferences and career aspirations. These systems face particular challenges in effectively ad- dressing the “cold start” problem for new users. Recent advancements in recommender systems suggest integrating large language models (LLMs) into the recommendation pro- cess to enhance personalized recommendations and address the “cold start” problem. Motivated by these advancements, our study introduces RAMO (Retrieval-Augmented Genera- tion for MOOCs), a system specifically designed to overcome the“cold start”challenges of traditional course recommender systems. The RAMO system leverages the capabilities of LLMs, along with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)- facilitated contextual understanding, to provide course rec- ommendations through a conversational interface, aiming to enhance the e-learning experience. Keywords Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Personalized Learn- ing, Recommender Systems, Artificial Intelligence 1. INTRODUCTION Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) gently facilitate ac- cess to learning for a diverse global audience [3]. By provid- ing an extensive range of courses through an easily acces- ∗This paper underwent a rigorous review process and was officially accepted on May 31, 2024, for presentation at the Educational Data Mining 2024 Workshop: Leveraging Large Language Models for Next Generation Educational Tech- nologies. sible online platform, MOOCs not only enhance individual learning and development but also enrich the broader ed- ucational community [4]. However, the diverse categories of courses across disciplines can often overwhelm students when they step into new fields of study [17]. Selecting the right courses that align with both personal interests and aca- demic requirements is crucial, as improper choices may lead to wasted time, and resources, and a lack of fulfillment in one’s educational journey. To resolve this, researchers have developed course recom- mender systems using advanced algorithms to offer tailored guidance that aligns with individual learning preferences [30]. Many existing implementations of recommendation systems have demonstrated significant benefits, such as en- hancing personalized learning experiences and improving stu- dent engagement, as highlighted by a recent study [11]. How- ever, these systems also face critical limitations, particularly the “cold start” problem, which occurs when trying to make recommendations for new users with limited historical data [15]. Though previous research proposed a more complex framework—a novel meta-learning heterogeneous informa- tion networks approach [25]—to address the “cold start” rec- ommendation issue, the approach faces the challenge of high computational complexity, which is not scalable for large- scale MOOCs platforms. In response to address the limitations of prior work in recom- mendation systems, where the recommendations lack suffi- cient personalization