to the 5 LLMs selected in Section B, and their responses were analyzed using the aforementioned metrics. Compared to human respondents, the similarity in LLMs’ responses is notably lower, and the corresponding significance test is shown in Appendix F. Specifically, the average Cosine Similarity and Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient for LLMs are sub- stantially below those of human respondents, with a huge difference exceeding 0.42. The Value Mean Difference for LLMs averages around 1.52, indicating a substantial diver- gence in self-knowledge between the two types of question- naires for LLMs. And as for most LLMs, the proportion of consistent pairs falls below 55%, raising questions about LLMs’ ability to achieve self-knowledge-action unity in practice. 4. Conclusion We demonstrate that while LLMs exhibit some capacity to mimic human-like tendencies, there are significant gaps in the coherence between their stated personality and exhibited behaviors. This disparity probably suggests a limitation in LLMs’ ability to authentically replicate human personality dynamics. Our study underscores the importance of further exploration into enhancing LLMs’ ability to perform more genuinely human-like interactions, suggesting avenues for future research in improving the psychological realism of 4 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality LLM outputs. Limitations In this study, we delve into the alignment between what Large Language Models (LLMs) claim and their actions, aiming to discern if there’s a consistency in their self- knowledge and their actual behavior tendency. This ob- servation is merely one among several hypotheses exploring the root causes of this inconsistency, underscoring the need for further investigation into the fundamental reasons be- hind it. Moreover, the scope of our initial experiments was limited to a selection of several LLMs. Future endeavors will expand this investigation to encompass a broader array of models. Additionally, our study has yet to identify an effective strategy for enhancing the congruence between LLMs’ self-knowledge and action. As we move forward, our efforts will focus on leveraging the insights gained from this research to improve the performance and reliability of LLMs, paving the way for models that more accurately mirror human thought and behavior. Impact Statement Our personality knowledge survey leverages the TDA-100, BFI-44, and the 16 Personalities Test, which are extensively recognized and employed within the personality knowledge domain. These tests, available in both Chinese and English, are backed by thorough reliability and validity analyses. We ensured the integrity of these instruments by maintaining their original content without any modifications. The de- sign of every questionnaire intentionally avoids any bias related to gender and is free from racial content, fostering an inclusive approach. Participants’ anonymity was strictly preserved during the survey process. Moreover, all indi- viduals were fully informed about the purpose of the study and consented to their responses being utilized for scientific research, thereby arising no ethical issues. Acknowledgement This paper is partially supported by SMP-Zhipu.AI Large Model Cross-Disciplinary Fund. References Allport, G. W. Personality: A psychological interpreta- tion. 1937. URL https://psycnet.apa.org/ record/1938-01964-000. Brown, A. and Maydeu-Olivares, A. Ordinal fac- tor analysis