M-RAG: Reinforcing Large Language Model Performance through Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Multiple Partitions Zheng Wang1, Shu Xian Teo1, Jieer Ouyang1, Yongjun Xu1, Wei Shi1 1Huawei Technologies, Co., Ltd. {wangzheng155,teo.shu.xian,ouyang.jieer,xuyongjun6,w.shi}@huawei.com Abstract Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) en- hances Large Language Models (LLMs) by retrieving relevant memories from an exter- nal database. However, existing RAG meth- ods typically organize all memories in a whole database, potentially limiting focus on crucial memories and introducing noise. In this pa- per, we introduce a multiple partition paradigm for RAG (called M-RAG), where each database partition serves as a basic unit for RAG exe- cution. Based on this paradigm, we propose a novel framework that leverages LLMs with Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning to opti- mize different language generation tasks ex- plicitly. Through comprehensive experiments conducted on seven datasets, spanning three language generation tasks and involving three distinct language model architectures, we con- firm that M-RAG consistently outperforms vari- ous baseline methods, achieving improvements of 11%, 8%, and 12% for text summarization, machine translation, and dialogue generation, respectively. 1 Introduction Introduced by (Lewis et al., 2020), Retrieval- Augmented Generation (RAG) represents a paradigm within the domain of Large Language Models (LLMs) to augment generative tasks. More specifically, RAG incorporates an initial retrieval step where LLMs query an external database to acquire relevant information before progressing to answer questions or generate text. This process not only guides the subsequent generation step but also guarantees that the responses are firmly anchored in the retrieved information (referred to as memo- ries). Consequently, it enhances LLM performance, and has attracted growing research interests (Gao et al., 2023) in recent years. While the majority of existing studies (Asai et al., 2023; Cheng et al., 2023b; Ma et al., 2023) adopt a retrieval approach that considers a database as a whole, which tends to yield a coarse-grained re- trieval. The collective organization of all mem- ories may hinder the focus on crucial memories and introduce noise, particularly due to the inher- ent challenges of Approximate k-Nearest Neighbor (AKNN) search when applied to large datasets. In this context, we investigate a retrieval approach that aims to search within a partition of the database, corresponding retrieval at a fine-grained level, which is designed to enhance the generation pro- cess by targeting specific memories. Moreover, in quite a few vector database systems, database parti- tions are regarded as fundamental units for analysis. This facilitates the construction and maintenance of index structures (Pan et al., 2023), ensures the protection of user privacy data (stored in specific partitions with access rights) (Xue et al., 2017), and supports distributed architectures (Guo et al., 2022). Therefore, in this work, we propose to take a partition as a basic entity in the execution of RAG, which is less explored in current methods. We discuss our proposal with a motivating ex- periment illustrated in Figure 1. We investigate various strategies for partitioning a database (elab- orated in Section 3.1), and perform RAG with vary- ing the number of partitions for three generation tasks: summarization, translation, and