macro-level relative advantages at the episodic level based on full trajectory groups, and step-level groupings through an anchored state grouping mechanism. Zhang et al. [228] adopted a heuristic approach to group games based on features such as rules and difficulty, subsequently training specialized models for each group. It then merges the parameters from these group-specific models into a unified model, which is further trained across multiple groups until effective generalization across diverse game scenarios is achieved. Tool-Star [30] proposed a two-stage training framework integrating six tool categories, employing a hierarchical reward design through a multi-tool self-assessment RL algorithm. SPA-RL [165] decomposed final rewards into stepwise contributions aligned with task progress, used a progress evaluator to match cumulative values to completion, and combined them with baseline signals to yield fine-grained intermediate rewards that mitigate delay and enhance training. Shop-R1 [230] improved LLMs’ shopping behavior simulation by rewarding action correctness proportional to difficulty, while noting that limited context windows constrain long-term dynamic reasoning. Memory-R1 [203] learned to manage external memory and utilize it for long-term reasoning through two dedicated agents: a memory manager and a response agent. MemAgent [215] employed segmented processing and selective memory mechanisms to manage extended contextual information. In contrast, RMM [159] and M3-Agent [115] explored strategies for managing multi-turn long-term memory. 4.6 Reinforcement Learning from Internal Feedback While methods such as RLHF and RLVR have achieved remarkable results, they require extensive external supervision. However, a series of studies [190, 218] have found that RLVR does not inspire truly novel reasoning patterns; it merely improves the sampling efficiency of correct reasoning paths. Since RLVR does not bring new external information to LLMs but only stimulates the knowledge learned during pre-training, can we find a way to enable LLMs to activate such pre-trained knowledge without external supervision? Kang et al. [77] hypothesized that higher distributed self-certainty across samples correlates with response accuracy and thus proposed self-certainty as a metric for evaluating response quality without external rewards. TTRL [249] utilized prior knowledge from pre-trained models during reinforcement learning training and employed a majority voting method to address the lack of explicitly labeled data, achieving performance improvements. Zhao et al. [232] proposed a self-evolving model that autonomously generates and solves tasks to maximize learning progress without external data, using a code executor to verify both tasks and solutions and provide unified rewards for open-ended learning. SLOT [64] is a lightweight test-time method that, without altering Manuscript submitted to ACM 20 Keliang Liu et al. the main model, optimizes an additive vector 𝛿for each prompt using self-constructed supervision signals to minimize language modeling loss and thereby improve accuracy and reasoning under complex instructions. Zhao et al. [236] used the model’s own confidence as the sole reward signal and replaced the external reward in GRPO with a self-certainty score, achieving fully unsupervised learning. Kang et al. [77] hypothesized that higher aggregated self-certainty across samples correlates with response accuracy and proposed it as a metric for evaluating quality without external rewards. Li et al. [92]