Triples Fusion: Only the top 5 triples from each subgraph are preserved to reduce noise. RM Fusion: A reward model is used to score and filter triples, retaining only those highly relevant to the query to enhance information quality and generation performance. The generation quality is evaluated using four standard metrics: ROUGE-1 (R-1), ROUGE-L (R-L), BLEU-1 (B-1), and METEOR (Met.). The experi- mental results are shown in Table 7. Different subgraph fusion methods have a significant impact on the quality of the final generated results. Notably, the Top 5 triples fusion method performs well on the Hot- potQA dataset but poorly on the MuSiQue dataset. The RM fusion method achieves the best results on both HotpotQA and MuSiQue, demonstrating that this strategy has a certain degree of generalizability. This is because All fusion may introduce excessive redundant or noisy information, which interferes with the model’s focus on key content. Top-5 triples fusion reduces noise to some extent, but its fusion strategy is relatively coarse. It fails to effectively model semantic correlations, resulting in fewer relevant triples and thus limited document retrieval. In contrast, RM fusion models semantic relevance across multiple heterogeneous subgraphs more effectively. This helps retain the most valu- able information, enables the retrieval of more relevant documents, and ultimately improves the quality of generated content. 5.9. Impact of entity quantity in queries To further investigate the impact of entity quantity in queries on model performance, we divide the HotpotQA test set into three categories: single-entity queries, two-entity queries, and multi-entity queries (more than 2 entities). For each category, 200 samples are randomly selected for evaluation. The experimental results are shown in Fig. 7. The experimental results demonstrate a clear upward trend in the scores of the QMKGF model across three evaluation metrics—ROUGE-L, ROUGE-1, and BLEU—as the num- ber of entities in the query increases, indicating enhanced generation capabilities. For instance, under the BLEU met- ric, the score improves significantly from 61.16% in the single-entity group to 70.37% in the multi-entity group. This phenomenon reflects that, in the context of the multi-hop question answering task represented by Hot- potQA, multi-entity queries provide more explicit semantic anchors, which facilitate richer semantic expansion when integrated with knowledge graphs. Consequently, the model is able to retrieve more query-relevant passages from the database during the retrieval stage, offering stronger contex- tual support for generation. In contrast, single-entity queries often exhibit semantic ambiguity, which may lead to overly broad retrieval scopes or insufficient contextual aggregation, thereby undermining the accuracy and consistency of the generated content. Q. Wei et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 11 of 13 Leveraging social media news 6. Conclusion In this paper, we proposed QMKGF, a novel framework aimed at enhancing the performance of large language mod- els (LLMs). To capture semantically rich structures associ- ated with the query, a multi-path subgraph construction strat- egy was developed. Subsequently, a query-aware attention reward model was introduced to score triples based on their semantic relevance to the query, guiding the selection of