LVLM based on Vi- cuna (Chiang et al., 2023), utilizing CLIP as its visual encoder. It is fine-tuned on VL instruction- following data generated by GPT-4 (Liu et al., Image Query Top retrieved image-caption pair (k = 1) Zero-shot CLIP-SF BLIP-FF Random Prompt - Black and white photograph of two men on motorcycles. A man riding on the back of a motorcycle down a highway. A pair of red scissors sitting on a newspaper. LLaVA Motorcycle rider on the road, with luggage attached to the back. Black and white photograph of a man on a motorcycle. A man riding on the back of a motorcycle down a highway. A man is sitting on a motorcycle, and there are two and a half hot- dogs on paper plates on a counter. Gemini-P Biker and passenger riding down the road together. Black and white photograph of a man and woman riding on a mo- torcycle. Two people riding on a motorcy- cle through a parking lot. Biker and his passenger riding down the road. GPT-4o two people on a motorcycle waiting at a traffic light. black and white photograph of two men on a motorcycle at an intersection. two people riding on a motorcy- cle through an intersection. two people are sharing a large cruiser motorcycle at a stoplight. Table 1: Sample caption generation with LLaVA, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-4o models in zero-shot and one-shot settings. The “Prompt” row shows the zero-shot image query as well as retrieved image-caption pairs from CLIP-SF, BLIP-FF and random selection that are included in the prompt as in-context examples. 2023c). LLaVA’s ability to understand and follow human intent makes it well-suited for RAG caption generation. Figures 2 to 5 in Appendix A show detailed prompts used for caption generation. Unlike image captioning, which only requires MM understanding, image generation necessitates models with both MM understanding and gen- eration capabilities. To meet this need, we se- lected LaVIT and Emu2-Gen from a survey of LVLMs (Zhang et al., 2024). LaVIT is an open-source model based on LLaMA-7B (Touvron et al., 2023) that employs a visual tokenizer to convert images into discrete visual tokens. This allows it to process both text and image inputs using a unified objective for next image/text token prediction. The authors report a Frechet Inception Distance (FID) of 7.4 (Heusel et al., 2017) on the MSCOCO dataset, indicating its strong capability in image generation tasks. Emu2-Gen is another open-source model, fine- tuned from Emu2 for image generation. Like LaVIT, it uses next token prediction across all modalities and incorporates a variant of CLIP as its visual encoder along with LLaMA-33B as its back- bone. It can accept interleaved inputs of images, texts, and videos, and features a visual decoder for generating images. While its zero-shot effec- tiveness on various VL tasks is lower than that of Emu (Dai et al., 2023), Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022), and others, it excels in few-shot settings, making it suitable for image generation with RAG. Table 2 displays visual