the search efficiency of ToR, we advocate for two tree-based search optimiza- tion strategies: pruning, which aims to diminish the frequency of unproductive search initiations, and effective expansion, designed to refine query generation for improved retrieval paragraphs. Experiments on three different multi-hop ques- tion answering datasets show that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance in both retrieval and response generation. Our contributions include: • We propose a dynamic retrieval framework named TREE OF REVIEWS (TOR), which in- tegrates a tree structure into the iterative re- trieval process. This method mitigates the negative impact associated with the inherent vulnerabilities of chain-like retrieval methods. • We propose two tree-based search optimiza- tion strategies: pruning and effective expan- sion. These strategies demonstrate significant improvements in both retrieval quality and ef- ficiency. These efforts offer valuable insights for the optimization of iterative retrieval meth- ods. • Our method achieves state-of-the-art perfor- mance in both retrieval and response genera- tion on three different multi-hop question an- swering datasets. Extensive experiments have conclusively demonstrated the effectiveness of our method. 2 Related Work Supervised Multi-hop Question Answering Some researchers have investigated iterative re- trieval for multi-hop question answering in fully supervised settings. Das et al. (2019) generate a new query representation by utilizing the current query and the current state of the reader, and initi- ate iterative retrieval. Feldman and El-Yaniv (2019) adopt a similar approach, in which a fusion module is designed in the new query generation stage to ensure sufficient interaction. Qi et al. (2019) em- ploy a supervised generator to generate new queries based on the query and historical passages, and it- eratively conduct retrieval. Nakano et al. (2021) utilize GPT3 to answer long-form questions by sim- ulating human browsing behavior. Although super- vised models perform well on multi-hop datasets 2 like HotpotQA, they rely on expensive manual an- notation and specific training. However, in practi- cal application scenarios like New Bing and Per- Plexity.AI, the indexed document scope is broader, and the retrieval source is updated in real-time. In this case, the supervised models are likely to fail. Retrieval-Augmentation for Complex Problems The Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) sys- tem typically retrieves additional knowledge from specific corpora, such as Wikipedia, to alleviate the hallucination problem of Large Language Mod- els (LLMs), thereby significantly enhancing the performance of LLMs in various tasks (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Ram et al., 2023). Early research on RAG typically employs a one- step retrieval approach, which is ineffective in ad- dressing composite problems. To tackle compos- ite problems, Self-Ask (Press et al., 2023) poses sub-questions before answering the main question, optimizing complex composite problems through multiple retrievals.IRCoT (Trivedi et al., 2023) trig- gers retrieval on each sentence of the CoT. ITER- RETGEN (Shao et al., 2023) connects the complete CoT reasoning steps generated in the previous turn with the original question for the next turn’s gen- eration query. However, these methods all adopt a chain-like structure for reasoning. If an error occurs at any step in