implement and transfer well across codebases. We call the model with just these two modiﬁcations Primer-EZ. Blue indicates portions of the original Transformer and red signiﬁes one of our proposed modiﬁcations. Squared ReLU: The most effective modiﬁcation is the improvement from a ReLU activation to a squared ReLU activation in the Transformer’s feed forward block. Rectiﬁed polynomials of varying degrees have been studied in the context of neural network activation functions [36], but are not commonly used; to the best of our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst time such rectiﬁed polynomial activations are demonstrated to be useful in Transformers. Interestingly, the effectiveness of higher order polynomials [37] can also be observed in other effective Transformer nonlinearities, such as GLU [38] variants like ReGLU [39] (y = Ux⊙max(V x, 0) where ⊙is an element-wise product) and point-wise activations like approximate GELU [40] (y = 0.5x(1 + tanh( p 2/π(x + 0.044715x3)))). However, squared ReLU has drastically different asymptotics as x −→∞compared to the most commonly used activation functions: ReLU, GELU and Swish (Figure 5 left side). Squared ReLU does have signiﬁcant overlap with ReGLU and in fact is equivalent when ReGLU’s U and V weight matrices are the same and squared ReLU is immediately preceded by a linear transformation with weight matrix U. This leads us to believe that squared ReLUs capture the beneﬁts of these GLU variants, while being simpler, without additional parameters, and delivering better quality (Figure 5 right side). 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 ReLU GELU Swish Squared ReLU 2 1 0 1 2 2 1 0 1 2 y 1 0 1 2 3 Ux Vx ReGLU Squared ReLU ReLU GELU Swish ReGLU SwiGLU Sqr ReLU -21 -19.5 Negative PPLX T5 C4 LM 110M Params Figure 5: Left: Squared ReLU has starkly different asymptotics compared to other common activation functions. Center: Squared ReLU has signiﬁcant overlap with GLU variants [39] that use activations with ReLU-like asymptotics, such as ReGLU and SwiGLU. Our experiments indicate that squared ReLU is better than these GLU variants in Transformer language models. Right: Comparison of different nonlinearities in Transformers trained on C4 auto-regressive LM for 525K steps. 5 Multi-DConv-Head Attention (MDHA): Another effective modiﬁcation is adding 3x1 depthwise convolutions after each of the multi-head projections for query Q, key K and value V in self-attention. These depthwise convolutions are performed over the spatial dimension of each dense projection’s output. Interestingly, this ordering of pointwise followed by depthwise convolution is the reverse of typical separable convolution, which we ﬁnd to be less effective in Appendix A.6. We also ﬁnd that wider depthwise convolution and standard convolution not only do not improve performance, but in several cases hurt it. Although depthwise convolutions have been used for Transformers before [41, 42], using them after each dense head projection has not been done to the best of our knowledge. MDHA is similar to Convolutional Attention [43], which uses separable convolution instead of depthwise convolution and does not