results on three datasets. The accuracy and macro-averaged F1 score (%) are reported as the metrics. The best and second results are in bold and underlined. statistics of the three datasets in the Appendix. Baselines We compare MR.HARM with sev- eral state-of-the-art harmful meme detection sys- tems: 1) Text BERT (Devlin et al., 2019); 2) Image-Region (Ren et al., 2016; He et al., 2016); 3) Late Fusion (Pramanick et al., 2021a); 4) MMBT (Kiela et al., 2019); 5) VisualBERT COCO (Li et al., 2019; Lin et al., 2014); 6) ViL- BERT CC (Lu et al., 2019; Sharma et al., 2018); 7) MOMENTA (Pramanick et al., 2021b); 8) MaskPrompt (Cao et al., 2022). We use the accu- racy and macro-averaged F1 score as the evaluation metrics. More implementation details and baseline descriptions are provided in Appendix. 4.2 Harmful Meme Detection Performance Table 1 shows the performance of our proposed method versus all the compared methods on the Harm-C, Harm-P and FHM datasets. It is observed that 1) The performance of the baselines in the first group is obviously poor due to only unimodal fea- tures like text-only or image-only being captured. In comparison, the other baselines exploit the mul- timodal features from both the text and image in memes. 2) The multimodal models in the second group outperform the unimodal ones. The early- fusion models with multimodal pre-training (i.e., VisualBERT COCO and ViLBERT CC) outper- form that of the simple fusion with unimodal pre- training (i.e., Late Fusion and MMBT) on Harm- C/P datasets, while MOMENTA performs best in the second group by considering global and local information of memes. 3) However, as the images in FHM dataset are more informative and high- quality, MaskPrompt yields the best performance among all the baselines by incorporating additional extracted entities and demographic information of the image into the masked language models, be- sides just captioning the image into the prompt. Our proposed MR.HARM improves over the best baselines by 2.63%, 1.31%, and 9.86% in terms of Macro-F1 score on Harm-C, Harm-P, and FHM datasets, respectively. We observe that 1) the improvement on the Harm-P dataset is relatively milder than that on the other two datasets. Mean- while, all the baselines just have tiny differences among their performances on Harm-P. We specu- late the reason falls into the smaller dataset scale of Harm-P which only contains politics-related harm- ful memes. 2) A similar trend can also be observed in Harm-C and FHM datasets: the more challeng- ing the dataset is, the greater performance improve- ment MR.HARM achieves. Our model performs flexibly and stably across all datasets with its keen judgment on harmful memes. This is because all the baselines are only designed at the recognition level, but MR.HARM is further empowered with multimodal reasoning knowledge distilled from LLMs to unearth harmful content from the seemly uncorrelated text and image modalities of memes. 4.3 Ablative Study We perform ablative studies on several variants of MR.HARM: 1) w/o Reasoning Distillation: Sim- ply fine-tune the smaller language