an end-to-end solution that transforms raw corpora into specialized LLM benchmarks, revealing optimal hallucination mitigation strategies. 2.1 Hallucination Benchmark Testset Generation This section introduces a method for generating synthetic question-answer (QA) testsets to benchmark hallucination in LLMs. Each QA pair consists of a question, the correct answer, and one hallucinated answer. The QA-set generation process includes seven steps: (1) Knowledge Base Processing, (2) Ground-Truth Weighted Sampling, (3) Baseline Question Batch Generation, (4) Complex Question Batch Evolution, (5) Question Filtering and Quality Assurance, (6) Correct Answer Batch Generation, and (7) Hallucinated Answer Batch Generation. THaMES is designed to be capable of processing a variety of corpora, so we selected a mix of political news articles, academic papers, and Wikipedia articles to generate our experimental QA testset. In practice, the framework is compatible with various file formats including PDF, TXT, and CSV. We utilized the VectorStoreIndex module provided by LlamaIndex [Liu, 2022] to build a knowledge base out of the raw corpus, selecting text blocks (nodes) and semantically similar neighbors to generate questions and answers. Many existing frameworks use basic random sampling to select text nodes as supporting context for question generation. In implementing THaMES, we designed a weighted random sampling method to ensure a balanced and diverse text block sampling. The sampling probability for each text node i is calculated as: pi = wi Pn j=1 wj , where wi = 1 ci+1. This approach, combined with the text-embedding-large-3 embedding model, improved corpus coverage and generated a more diverse testset, tested by comparing the number of observed node retrievals with a uniform retrieval distribution (see Appendix A.9). We chose GPT-4o-mini [OpenAI, 2024] for question generation to minimize human validation, due to its high performance and relatively low cost. The HaluEval testset had simple questions with short answers, so we created six question types: [simple, reasoning, multi-context, situational, distracting, and double] based on RAGAS [Es et al., 2023] and Giskard [Giskard AI, 2024]. Unlike these frameworks, our type definitions were designed not for retrieval- augmented generation (RAG) systems but for general LLM hallucination evaluation. We also introduced rules to ensure high generated question quality, such as avoiding ambiguous references, numerical estimates, ensuring self-containment, etc. (detailed in Appendix A.3.1). To generate simple-type questions, we used few-shot prompting, instructing GPT-4o-mini to output batches of JSON objects (Appendix A.2.1). Batch generation was chosen for its cost-effectiveness and ability to minimize repeated questions, ensuring testset diversity. The questions were then evolved into one of the six predefined types through a filtering process (Appendix A.2.3) to ensure quality and compliance with our criteria. Next, the model generated correct answers for each question, using the original context from the knowledge base to ensure factual accuracy. A key feature of the THaMES testset is its inclusion of hallucinated answers. HaluEval [Li et al., 2023] used other models including GPT-3.5 [Brown et al., 2020] to generate and select hallucinated answers, but this lacked interpretability and did not guarantee the selection of the most distracting answer. THaMES improves this by using