LLM performance [36], emphasizing the need to consider the order of the combination of chunks in RAG tasks. However, existing methods are not well-suited for cases where optimal retrieval requires a specific chunk combination order, rather than isolated chunks. In this paper, we propose CARROT, a cost-constrained retrieval optimization framework that addresses the overlooked importance of considering the order of chunk combinations. 3) Reinforcement Learning for Large Language Models: Recently, reinforcement learning (RL) has been increasingly utilized in various data management and RAG tasks. The RL technique can enable large language models to improve their generation ability by leveraging external knowledge sources, such as search engines [30]. In particular, the human feed- back [15], [51] can be integrated to help models produce more accurate and contextually relevant responses through the RL framework. In addition, some query optimization approaches [1], [8], [37] further refine retrieval processes, allowing model performance to inform query adjustments and ultimately enhance downstream task outcomes. In this work, we apply a lightweight RL technique MCTS to optimize the chunk combination order search process in the RAG system. We also introduce a configuration agent to guide the MCTS search process. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach to addressing this problem. IV. SYSTEM OVERVIEW Existing RAG frameworks face three major challenges: cap- turing inter-chunk correlations, handling the non-monotonic utility of chunk order, and adapting to diverse query domains. To tackle these, we propose CARROT, a learned system that retrieves the optimal chunk combination under a given query and cost budget. Its core component, the Optimal Chunk Com- bination Search module, employs an MCTS-based policy tree to sequentially explore chunk orders under cost constraints, effectively modeling inter-chunk dependencies (Challenge 1) and non-monotonic utilities (Challenge 2). Furthermore, the Configuration Agent module automatically selects the best MCTS configuration and reranker for different query domains, addressing Challenge 3. We next overview these two modules. 1. Optimal Chunk Combination Search: A straightforward approach to considering chunk correlations involves retrieving potential chunks from a vector database (Step 1 in Figure 2) and exhaustively exploring all possible chunk combinations. However, this method incurs significant latency and computa- tional costs. To mitigate this, we construct a policy tree (Step 2 in Figure 2), reframing the optimal chunk combination search as a node search problem within the tree. Specifically, the root node of the policy tree represents an initial empty state, and each child node corresponds to a specific combination of chunks. We design an MCTS-based search algorithm to address this problem, which iteratively constructs a policy tree for optimal chunk combination search. During the search pro- cess, both cost and budget constraints are explicitly incorpo- rated to guide decision-making. Each iteration of the algorithm consists of four phases: (1) Selection: iteratively selecting child nodes from the root using a UCB-based utility function that balances exploration and exploitation while incorporating cost control; (2) Expansion: generating all feasible child nodes; (3) Simulation: performing parallel evaluations of the expanded nodes via reranker scoring; and (4)