non- trivial utility such that the expected contrastive loss Lτ is better than random: Lτ := E[Lcont] < ln 2 (i.e., E[sθ(x, x+) −sθ(x, x−)] > 0); and (b) bounded variance such that the training is stable and converges well: Vrag := V[sθ(x, x+) −sθ(x, x−)]1/2log(exp{Lτ} −1) < 1 Remarks. (R1) Note that a retrieval model with random ini- tialization can achieve E[sθ(x, x+)] = E[sθ(x, x−)] asymptot- ically. We merely assume a Vrag-retrieval model that can non- trivially differentiate the positive from negative examples. (R2) We also assume a moderate stability with bounded vari- ance, which implicitly assumes a moderate generalization of the retrieval model based on the variance-generalization link (Lam, 2016; Gotoh et al., 2018; Namkoong & Duchi, 2017). This is essential for the analysis as the knowledge base distribution is non-identical to the calibration/test distri- bution. (R3) We define Vrag-retrieval model using a standard contrastive loss in (Wang et al., 2023c; Rubin et al., 2021), but it can be adapted for other contrastive loss such as triplet loss (Hermans et al., 2017), by altering the logarithmic fac- tor in the Vrag formula. We defer the proof sketches as well as the detailed proofs and remarks to App. F. With a Vrag-retrieval model, we show that C-RAG can re- trieve a high number of positive examples as in-context demonstrations as follows. Proposition 3 (lower bound of the number of retrieved positive examples). Consider the Vrag-retrieval model in Def. 1 and RAG generation protocol in Sec. 4.2. Let r(c) cal and r(c) ext be the portion of data with groundtruth output c ∈Y in the calibration data distribution and external knowledge data distribution, respectively. We have: E [Npos] ≥9 10Nrag 1 − X c∈Y r(c) cal  Next −r(c) ext Next + √ 2 ln 10  V 0.5  r(c) ext Next− √ 2 ln 10  rag  (6) where Npos is the number of retrieved positive examples, Nrag is the total number of retrieved examples, and Next is the number of examples in the external knowledge base. Remarks. Prop. 3 offers a guarantee on the minimum num- ber of positive examples retrieved by the Vrag-retrieval model. (R1) The ratio of the retrieved examples that are positive increases at an exponential rate with respect to Next, which suggests that expanding the external knowledge base could enhance the retrieval quality and therefore benefit in-context learning of LLMs, as shown in (Min et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022a). For a sufficiently large Next (a common scenario in practice), the lower bound approximately scales with 0.9Nrag. (R2) If the knowledge base is highly long-tailed such that samples of certain reference texts are rare (i.e., small r(c) ext ), we require a larger sample size of knowledge base Next to compensate for the long-tail distribution and achieve compa- rable retrieval quality. (R3) A low-variance retrieval model is expected to generalize well to test distribution and in- crease retrieval quality. The above guarantee we provide for E[Npos] in relation to Vrag