context. When answering the query ”Is bougainvillea a shrub?”, it retrieves text containing match- ing terms but misses the essential taxonomic information. Meanwhile, HYDE and RAPTOR depend on costly LLM calls to generate hypotheses or summarize content, leading to inefficient token usage. In contrast, CARROT’s adaptive chunk selection strategy retrieves concise, semantically aligned context, enabling more accurate and efficient LLM responses. (3) Handling Query Diversity. To assess robustness to di- verse query types, we compare CARROT with its variant CARROT w/o Agent, which lacks the adaptive configuration agent. Without this component, the model struggles to identify optimal chunk combinations and often fails to retrieve the most relevant information, demonstrating the importance of the configuration agent in handling varied query intents. VIII. CONCLUSION Considering non-monotonic chunk utility, chunk correla- tion, and diverse query domains, we propose CARROT, a learned cost-constrained retrieval optimization framework for RAG. We model chunk combination orders as a policy tree and apply MCTS to find the optimal combination within a cost constraint. A configuration agent predicts the best query configuration and reranker, while a parallel expansion strategy processes multiple nodes per iteration. Comprehensive experiments across three benchmark datasets demonstrate that CARROT significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods under constrained costs, achieving up to 30% improvement while maintaining superior efficiency and scalability. ACKNOWLEDGMENT This research is supported by Singapore MOE AcRF Tier- 2 grant MOE-T2EP20223-0004. Wei Dong is supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore, and the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore under the National Cyberse- curity R&D Programme and the CyberSG R&D Programme Office (Award CRPO-GC3-NTU-001). Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed in these materials are those of the author(s) and do not reflect the views of the National Research Foundation, Singapore, the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore, or the CyberSG R&D Programme Office. We also thank Jingyi for helpful feedback. AI-GENERATED CONTENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT We use LLMs solely for language refinement, including grammar checking, sentence rephrasing, and improving clarity. REFERENCES [1] X. Zhao, X. Zhou, and G. Li, “Chat2data: An interactive data analysis system with rag, vector databases and llms,” Proc. VLDB Endow., vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 4481–4484, 2024. [2] J. Zhu, P. Cai, K. Xu, L. Li, Y. Sun, S. Zhou, H. Su, L. Tang, and Q. Liu, “Autotqa: Towards autonomous tabular question answering through multi-agent large language models,” Proc. VLDB Endow., vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 3920–3933, 2024. [3] P. Li, Y. He, D. Yashar, W. Cui, S. Ge, H. Zhang, D. R. Fainman, D. Zhang, and S. Chaudhuri, “Table-gpt: Table fine-tuned GPT for diverse table tasks,” Proc. ACM Manag. Data, vol. 2, no. 3, p. 176, 2024. [4] S. Arora, B. Yang, S. Eyuboglu, A. Narayan, A. Hojel, I. Trummer, and C. R´e, “Language models enable simple systems for generating structured views of heterogeneous data lakes,” Proc. VLDB Endow., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 92–105, 2023. [5] B. Snyder, M. Moisescu, and M. B. Zafar, “On early detection of hallucinations in factual question answering,” in KDD, 2024, pp. 2721– 2732. [6] P. Sarthi, S.