fed to the trainable model, but a set of object embeddings Oa b is collected for each of the M selected frames: for each one of the b objects detectable by a two-stage object detector on the a-th frame, the cor- responding representation is obtained by concatenating the detection bounding box with and additional visual-features vector, retrieved from the same detection model. The com- plete process is detailed in Section 4.1.1. Conversely, the object embedding associated with the tracked vehicle is ob- ofﬂine ofﬂine RCNN 1. A white pick up truck drives down the street and passes another truck. 2. A white pickup truck going straight down the street with cars parking on the side. 3. A white pickup runs on the street. Input 1: Video sequence and target BB Input 2: 3 sentences that describe the video Sentence Embedding 1 (Bs,256) Target crop ROI pooling frame C Objects BB and class + ROI Embedding (Bs, M, O, (5+256)) classification ... C ... O O Non-target objects on M frames ResNet18 M frames Objects embedding (Bs, M, O+1, (256+5)) ... M Transformer: Spatial encoder Spatial Embedding (Bs,M,O+1,256) mean (Bs,M,256) Transformer: Temporal encoder Temporal Embedding (Bs,M,256) Sentence Embedding 2 (Bs,256) Sentence Embedding 3 (Bs,256) min Embedding Euclidean distance Concatenation Sum Positional encoding Positional econding from subsample Video processing NLP NL queries (Bs,3,256) D Multi-Head attention Feed forward add & norm add & norm + Multi-Head attention Feed forward add & norm + BERT + ⊕ LEGEND ⊕ Transformer decoder Multi-Head attention Feed forward add & norm Multi-Head attention 2 1 0 add & norm add & norm (Bs,256) add & norm (Bs,256) (Bs,256) D D D D D D D D D 2 1 0 Figure 3: Overview of the best performing architecture with Visual Triple-Output and Language Triple-Output conﬁgurations. tained by concatenating the provided tracking bounding box with a visual embedding vector computed by a dedicated convolutional backbone. This module, trained along with the rest of the model, takes as input a sequence of M RGB frames depicting only the tracking vehicle, and produces a 256-dimensional visual representation. Padding must be applied to vi both at batch level, since M i can differ be- tween sequences, and at sequence level, given that different frames can spot a different number of detectable objects. The visual input vi obtained in this way is fed through two identical Transformer encoders: the ﬁrst Spatial En- coder operates on the sequence of (O + 1) objects, treat- ing the remaining dimension as an additional batch shape. As in the original work [28], the output from the last block of the encoder has the same shape as the input, therefore the mean is computed over the object’s axis to produce a ﬁxed size embedding for each of the M timesteps. The av- eraged output of the Spatial Encoder results in a tensor with shape(M, 256), which is fed to the Temporal Encoder that aggregates the temporal information of the visual input. Fi- nally, a Transformer Decoder