robustness experiments investigate how well the m-KAILIN framework generalizes across different temporal spans and biomedical subdisciplines, reflecting real-world application scenarios that challenge LLMs with both chronological and disciplinary diversity. 4.7.1 Robustness Under Chronological Question As shown in Figure 13, our agentic framework, especially when combined with MeSH-based evaluation, enables models to maintain consistently high accuracy across documents published at different time pe- riods. Compared to strong biomedical baselines such as MMedLM, models distilled with m-KAILIN demonstrate significantly greater robustness to temporal shifts. This improvement stems from two key innovations: (1) the multi-agent setup, which incorporates diverse perspectives during corpus construc- tion, and (2) the MeSH-guided evaluation agent, which provides structured biomedical context, allowing Sci China Inf Sci 14 the model to better understand and adapt to evolving domain knowledge over time. Notably, larger models exhibit even greater temporal robustness, likely due to their increased capacity to absorb and generalize from temporally diverse data curated by our framework. 4.7.2 Robustness Under Subdisciplinary Question We conduct evaluation on subdisciplinary slices based on major MeSH terms (Figure 14). The results show that m-KAILIN-trained models outperform their peers across various biomedical topics and demo- graphics. This robustness stems from our MeSH-based knowledge-driven design, which leverages MeSH hierarchies during both retrieval and evaluation. This design ensures comprehensive coverage and nu- anced understanding across biomedical subfields. The evaluation agent’s use of MeSH facilitates more relevant and context-aware question-answer generation, systematically exposing the model to the breadth of the biomedical literature’s structure. Finally, the overall trend affirms the effectiveness of our approach in producing models well-adapted to the complex, hierarchical landscape of biomedical knowledge. 5 Conclusion In this work, we present a knowledge-driven, multi-agent framework for scientific corpus distillation tailored to biomedical large language model training. By leveraging a collaborative architecture—where specialized agents guided by biomedical ontologies autonomously generate, evaluate, and refine question- answer pairs—our approach addresses the limitations of existing open-source scientific corpora in both scale and quality. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that language models trained on our multi-agent distilled datasets achieve substantial improvements in biomedical question-answering tasks, outperforming both strong open-source and proprietary baselines. Our ablation studies further validate the effectiveness and synergy of each agent within the framework. This study highlights the potential of agentic, knowledge-guided corpus construction for advancing biomedical AI, and provides scalable tools and datasets to the community for future research. Acknowledgements This work is partially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 62506351, No.92470204), the Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation (No.4254089). Hengshu Zhu is the corresponding author. References 1 Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, et al. The rise and potential of large language model based agents: A survey. Science China Information Sciences, 68(2):121101, 2025. 2 Yi Luo, Linghang Shi, Yihao Li, Aobo Zhuang, Yeyun Gong, Ling Liu, and Chen Lin. From intention to implementation: automating biomedical research via llms. Science China Information Sciences, 68(7):1–18, 2025. 3 Rui Yang, Ting Fang Tan,