Punjab? Intermediate answer: Ludhiana is the most populous and largest city in Punjab. Follow up: How large is Ludhiana, the most populous city in Punjab? Intermediate answer: The area of Ludhiana is over 310 km2. So the final answer is: 310 square kilometers # {Knowledge} Question: What is the capital of the country where yoga originated? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Which country was yoga originated? Intermediate answer: There is no consensus on yoga’s origin. Suggested origins include India. Follow up: What is the capital of India? Intermediate answer: The current capital of India is New Delhi. So the final answer is: New Delhi Table 23: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Self-Ask on Bamboogle. {Knowledge} Question: When did the first prime minister of the Russian Empire come into office? Let’s think step by step. The first prime minister of the Russian Empire was Count Sergei Witte. Sergei Witte was appointed on 6 November 1905. So the answer is 1905-11-06 00:00:00 {Knowledge} Question: The most populous city in Punjab is how large (area wise)? Let’s think step by step. Ludhiana is the most populous and the largest city in the Indian state of Punjab. The city has an area of over 310 km2. So the answer is 310 square kilometers {Knowledge} Question: What is the capital of the country where yoga originated? Let’s think step by step. Suggested origins include pre-Vedic Eastern states of India. The current capital of India is New Delhi. So the answer is New Delhi Table 24: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on Bamboogle. {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Belgrade Race is an annual men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia through history, past winners includes Brahim Lahlafi (1st edition), Philip Mosima (3rd) and Josphat Menjo (6th)? The answer is Yes {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Based on the same platform as the Chevrolet Sail, the Baojun 310 was launched on 2017 Beijing Auto Show where the price ranges from 36.800 yuan to 60.800 yuan? The answer is No {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Florida International University pedestrian bridge collapse was funded with a $19.4 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grant from the United States Department of Transportation in 2013, along with state agencies and the bridge cost $14.2 million to construct? The answer is No Table 25: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on Feverous. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. The final answer should always be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. # Question: Is it true that Belgrade Race is an annual men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia through history, past winners includes Brahim Lahlafi (1st edition), Philip Mosima (3rd) and Josphat Menjo (6th)? Are