very convenient and practical. In this paper, we focus on the fine-tuning methods and find that traditional vanilla chain-of-thought fine-tuned LLMs suffer from an assessment misalignment problem, which hinders their reasoning ability. To this end, we propose an alignment fine-tuning paradigm to address this problem to enhance the reasoning ability of LLMs. 2.2 ALIGNMENT OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS AI alignment research focuses on directing AI systems toward human-intended goals, preferences, or ethical principles. There are two primary categories of AI alignment methods: 1) Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) (Ouyang et al., 2022), which trains a reward model by utilizing human feedback, which subsequently acts as a reward function for optimizing an agent’s policy through reinforcement learning (RL) techniques, such as Proximal Policy Optimization (Schulman et al., 2017). RLHF is employed to align powerful LLMs, like ChatGPT and GPT- 4. However, RL-based methods face limitations concerning training efficiency and complexity; 2) Supervised Fine-tuning with Ranking (Liu et al., 2022; Yuan et al., 2023b; Song et al., 2023a; Rafailov et al., 2023), which involves training LLMs using a supervised fine-tuning paradigm and incorporating a ranking loss to help LLMs align with human preferences. Previous alignment research has mainly focused on improving the safety of LLMs, frequently neglecting the importance of alignment for reasoning. Furthermore, widely used ranking methods often neglect the constraint term when reducing scores of low-quality examples, which can potentially have a negative impact on model performance. In this paper, we point out the effectiveness of alignment for reasoning and introduce a novel constraint alignment loss to make LLMs better reasoners with alignment. 3 PILOT EXPERIMENTS In this section, we first briefly introduce the vanilla fine-tuning (VFT) paradigm, and then we demonstrate the assessment misalignment problem of VFT for reasoning. 3.1 VANILLA FINE-TUNING VFT finetunes LLMs on a dataset {(qi, ci, ai)}N i=1 with N examples. Each example consists of a question qi, a COT reasoning process ci, and an answer ai. The LLMs are finetuned to generate the reference response ri = [ci; ai] based on qi with a MLE objective loss function: LV F T = − |ri| X j=1 log P(ri,j | ri,<j, qi; θ). (1) where θ is the model parameter and ri,j is the j-th token of ri. 3.2 ASSESSMENT MISALIGNMENT OF VFT FOR REASONING Intuitively, the MLE objective seeks to exclusively allocate probability mass to the reference COT ci for question qi, which does not correspond with the characteristics of reasoning tasks, where the correct COT is not limited to the reference one. This objective uniformly treats all other correct and incorrect COTs as negative examples. As a result, it will impede LLMs from learning to assess the quality of various COTs and degrade their reasoning ability. To demonstrate this, we first fine-tune LLama-7B, LLama-13B, LLama2-7B, and LLama2-13B on the training data of GSM8k and ECQA with Equation 1 (please refer to Section 5.1 for the detailed VFT settings). Then, for each question qi in the training data, we use VFT-LLMs to generate