proach, therefore hereafter the exact optimization process for this solution is detailed. The overall procedure is sim- ilar for other combinations, mainly differing for the deﬁni- tion of the distance measure used in the loss function. The loss function used is the TML deﬁned in Equa- tion (4). In this case, the anchor Ai is deﬁned as the Vi- sual embedding V i1, the positive input P i1 is the Language embedding T i1 associated to the same sequence and the Negative input N i2 with i1 ̸= i2 is the language embed- ding obtained from a different sequence. Besides that, we sum a scaled Euclidean distance term that seeks to minimize the distance between the visual embeddings and the corre- sponding positive. This additional loss term is supposed to help to avoid local minima, given that during the optimiza- tion process only the anchor is moved while the language embeddings are ﬁxed. The comprehensive objective function L(A, P, N) is de- ﬁned in Equation (5). L(A, P, N) = T L(A, P, N) + 1 Bs Bs X i=1 β · Φ(Ai, P i) (5) The employed distance function is an extension of Eu- clidean distance. Since in the VT-LT approach both the vi- sual and the language branch provide three separate embed- ding vectors, the distance is computed for all the 9 permuta- tions, resulting in a matrix of distances DT V , in which each element is deﬁned as: DT V (m, n) = d(V i1 m , T i2 n ) m, n ∈{1, 2, 3}. (6) Φ(Ai, P i) is deﬁned as the minimum distance among the embeddings of the anchor and the positive NL in DT V , namely min(DAi P i). On the other hand, in T L we use the average distance among the embeddings of the anchor and the negative NL, namely mean(DAi Ni). The value of β is ﬁxed to β = 0.1. In addition, we exploited a strategy of on- line hard-negatives mining as suggested by Xuan et al. [33], selecting the negative value N i as max(d(Ai, N i)) for i in (0, Bs −1). In Section 5.2 we detail the evaluation pro- cess and present the results obtained on the CityFlow-NL dataset. 5. Experiments and Evaluation 5.1. BERT ﬁne-tuning To evaluate the ﬁne-tuning of the NL branch we use the Cosine Metric to serve as a measure in Equation 3. We refer to the average distance between descriptions associ- ated with the same SVT as Intra-Tuple or dINT RA. On the other hand, Inter-Tuple or dINT ER is the average distance between descriptions of different sequences. For both the LTO and LSO approach we compute mean and variance of dINT RA(T i) for each i-th input and dINT ER(T i1, T i2) for all possible combinations of (T i1, T i2), aiming to minimize the ﬁrst and maximize the second. Based on those metrics we select a single best-performing model for each case to be then used