a factor of ∼6.2X. 15 This strategy is not unlike bandit algorithms such as Successive Halving[53] and Hyperband[54], however we do not use a static population of individuals created a priori, but integrate our halving with the changing evolutionary population. 0 12500 25000 Num Individuals 4.5 4.0 3.5 Log Fitness Figure 12: Halving hurdles from our Primer search. Each dot represents the ﬁnal ﬁtness of an individual generated by evolution. Different “bands” form because each hurdle has a different training allowance. All bands see improvement over time, meaning that the median ﬁtness improves for all compute allowances. This correlation between a model’s performances at different training budgets allows us to reduce our total search cost by roughly a factor of 6.2X. A.4 Evolution Search Details We use Regularized Evolution [30] with a population size of 100 and a tournament selection size of 10. These values were not tuned. The mutations we use are as follows. Mutations: To create new candidates in our search, we uniform randomly select a parent from our search population and apply a single mutation to it. We employ ﬁve different mutation types (selections and decisions are performed uniform randomly unless speciﬁed otherwise): • Delete: Remove an instruction from a subprogram. • Insert: Create an instruction and insert it into a subprogram. • Delete and Insert: Perform a delete mutation followed by an insert mutation [55]. • Mutate Field: Select a ﬁeld from an instruction and change its value. • Swap: Swap the position of two instructions in a randomly selected subprogram. The input tensors for each instruction are also swapped so that the net effect is switching the positions of the instructions in the compute graph. • Mutate Bank Value: Change the value of a relative tensor dimension or constant in the corresponding bank. The values for relative tensor dimensions are selected from their vocabulary (see Appendix A.2). The values for constants are changed according to cnew := cprev · 10X + Y for previous value cprev, new value cnew and random variables X, Y ∼N(0, 1). After a mutation is applied, we run a light check to see if the resulting candidate’s compute graph is exactly equivalent to the parent’s compute graph. If it is, we perform another mutation. A.5 Transformer and Primer Program Comparisons Here we present the programs for both the Transformer seed and the discovered Primer model. Table 3 is a key that maps operation names to graph symbols for subsequent graphs. Figures 13 to 22 depict the subprograms for each model with the Primer changes highlighted in orange. Figure 23 depicts the full compute graphs for each model, with all subprograms resolved to their constituent primitives. Figures 24 and 25 depict the DNA programs for Transformer and Primer with all subprograms resolved and all instruction bank values plugged in. 16 Name Graphing symbol ADD + DIFFERENCE − DIVIDE ÷ MULTIPLY × ABS ROOT √ SQUARE x2 EXP ex LOG Log C MUL ×C ABS | x | RECIP Recip SIGN Sign