limitation that models often struggle to effectively anchor their reasoning on visual cues. For instance, GThinker [220] introduced CueRethinking, which anchors the inference process to visual cues and resolves inconsistencies through iterative cue reinterpretation. GLM-4.1V-Thinking [59] proposed a unified multimodal reasoning framework that integrates multi-source pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, and cross-task reinforcement learning with RLCS and a refined multi-domain reward system to enhance reasoning across diverse tasks. Manuscript submitted to ACM 18 Keliang Liu et al. 4.4 Adaptive Reasoning RLVR technology has achieved improved performance during testing by consuming more computing resources to generate longer chain-of-thought sequences. However, the length of its CoT reasoning is uncontrollable, making it impossible to achieve the expected performance level by allocating computing resources during testing. It often occurs that excessive testing time is allocated to simple problems or insufficient testing time is allocated to difficult problems [2, 116, 213]. This has inspired researchers to study adaptive length reasoning methods for large language models. S1 [125]extended computation through “budget forcing” technique. L1 [2] proposed Length Controlled Policy Optimization, an RL-based method. After training, the model can generate outputs that meet the required length constraints given in the prompts, and its performance is better than that of S1. Yi et al. [213] defined Sample Optimal Length as the length of the shortest correct response among multiple generated results, and uses it as a dynamic reward signal to guide the model to achieve efficient reasoning. AdaCoT [116], based on the PPO method, dynamically controlled the CoT trigger decision boundary by adjusting the penalty coefficient, enabling the model to judge the necessity of CoT according to the implicit query complexity. Thinkless [36] is trained under the reinforcement learning paradigm and uses two control symbols: <short> (concise) and <think> (deliberate). It decomposes the hybrid reasoning learning objective into a control symbol loss function (managing the selection of reasoning modes) and an answer loss function, thereby enhancing the hybrid-length reasoning ability. AdaptThink [223] showed that skipping reasoning benefits simple tasks in performance and efficiency, and by constraining the objective with importance sampling, it balances “thinking” and “non-thinking” samples during training to enable adaptive mode selection. Jiang et al. [74] designed a two-stage training framework of first cold start and then reinforcement learning to realize a model that can adaptively judge whether to start the thinking process according to the context information of user queries. Zhang et al. [225] systematically quantified the performance upper bounds of Large Reasoning Models (LRMs) in “long thinking” and “non-thinking” modes. By introducing a precision-aware length reward adjustment mechanism, it adaptively allocates reasoning resources according to problem difficulty to achieve efficient reasoning. Wang et al. [177] first performed supervised fine-tuning on the base model to simultaneously acquire long and short chain reasoning abilities. Then, it adopted a long-short adaptive grouping reward strategy to evaluate the prompt complexity and give corresponding incentives, and implements a logic-based reasoning mode switching loss function to optimize the initial token selection of the model, thereby guiding the reasoning type decision. Zhang et