with Chinese colleagues based on misalignment with civil rights and value on privacy (Hardman, 2021). Given that deception is a social phenomenon influenced by cultural backgrounds, AI researchers focusing on regulating deception must invest time in learning about countries and gaining knowledge of global cultural differences in relation to deception (Shilling and Mellor, 2014). The collaborative effort must be sensitive to diverse cultural perspectives and priorities, acknowledging the sociocultural nature of deception. Individual Engagement As AI systems become more integrated into daily life, their influence in interaction networks intensifies. Users’ trust in technology is associated with increased usage (Choudhury and Shamszare, 2023). The delegation of decision-making to AI raises concerns not only about increasing reliance on AI, but also about the impact of AI usage on individuals’ agency and ownership. Research on GPT suggests that individuals may experience loss of control when accepting AI suggestions, and fostering feelings of inclusion in workplace can mitigate this (Kadoma et al., 2023). Thus, companies should carefully consider the social implications of AI tools and shall implement the bot-or-not laws (Pazzanese, 2020). Initiating from the individuals’ AI engagements, new modes of knowing, working, and collaborating within the networks they collectively establish with technologies undergo a reconfiguration (Rice, Yates and Blejmar, 2020)9. From the perspective of Actor-Network Theory, the issue of AI deception draws attention to potential deceptive intent as an agency of AI tools that disrupts the original network of interactions, leading to complex accountability challenges (Wiltshire, 2020). For example, examining accountability in assignments involving AI may require an understanding of users’ intent and motivations behind employing it. Ultimately, the question arises: What kind of relationship do we want with AI, and to what extent of cooperation with AI do we truly feel empowered? Practical Change & Digital Education Initiative GPT’s disclaimer that “ChatGPT can make mistakes. Consider checking important information (OpenAI, 2023)” serves as a warning for users to verify information. However, the term 9 I navigate the sociological theoretical approach learnt in Lecture 1 to analyse technology; Castell’s Information Society in Lecture 2 help me better understand the idea of reconfigured network. 10 “mistake (Cambridge Dictionary, 2019)” implies unintentional errors rather than instrumental and intentional deception. Disclaimers on AI tools should explicitly state that AI can construct “believable but false information”, aligning with the definition of deceptive AI. Transparency is the first step in manifesting the issue. Digital education shall extend beyond the enhancement of general digital literacy, which includes statistical and technical skills (Pierce, 2008, pp.79–99). Rather, it should prioritise the development of “data infrastructure literacy,” emphasising the understanding of technologies as infrastructures involved in the “creation, storage, and analysis of data (Gray, Gerlitz and Bounegru, 2018).”10 Engaging in exercises that aim to make the information generation process explainable will create space for diverse perspectives from the public. Lastly, more efforts are needed in making AI tools and digital gadgets more accessible and inclusive. Conclusion This research presents a comprehensive analysis of deceptive AI. I traced the evolution of deceptive AI