the validation set of each dataset for experiments. For evaluation metrics, at answer-level, we use exact match (EM) to test whether the prediction is consistent with the reference an- swer. At token-level, following [12], we use token-level F1, precision (Prec.) and recall (Rec.) for comprehensive evaluation. 5.2 Baselines For comparison, we choose two closebook models and six retrieval- augmented models as baselines. Standard Prompting [2] directs the LLM to respond to queries. Chain-of-Thought [37] furnishes LLM with examples inclusive of reasoning processes to encour- age more thoughtful reasoning. Standard RAG [20] employs the query to retrieve multiple documents, and inputs them into LLM for deriving answers. ReAct [39] proposes synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. Flare [12] employs active retrieval during the answer generation process. IR-CoT [34] Interleaves retrieval with CoT Reasoning for multi-hop QA. Self-Ask [25] inte- grates intermediate steps to assist in deliberating on complex issues. Reflexion [31] incorporates an evaluator to reinforce language agents through linguistic feedback. To ensure a balanced compar- ison among all baselines, uniform settings are maintained across all models, including identical in-context demonstrations, prompt formats, retrievers, and document corpora. 5.3 Implementation Details In cognition process, we choose the cutting-edge gpt-35-turbo-16k LLM by querying its API iteratively with a temperature setting of 0. Since both datasets predominantly depend on knowledge from Wikipedia, we utilize the Wikipedia dump [14] to serve as the doc- ument corpus, where articles are segmented into passages of 100 tokens. The retrieval of relevant documents from this corpus em- ploys the BM25 algorithm [27] and E5 retriever [35], selecting the top 5 passages to serve as the external knowledge. Transitioning to the metacognition process, we leverage a fine- tuned T5-large model which acts as our expert monitoring model. The efficacy of similarity calculations is based on a repository of sentence transformers. We set a default judgment threshold for our monitoring mechanism at 0.4 to ensure precision. The maximum number of iterations is set to 5. The NLI model used in evaluating and planning is entrusted to a T5-XXL model. The code of MetaRAG is available on https://github.com/ignorejjj/MetaRAG. 6 RESULTS AND ANALYSIS 6.1 Main Results The main results are shown in Table 1. It can be observed that: (1) Our proposed MetaRAG consistently surpasses all baseline methods across two datasets. When compared to Reflexion, which also integrates a self-critic mechanism in its reasoning process, MetaRAG demonstrates a substantial improvement on all metrics. This suggests that using a metacognitive strategy is more beneficial than merely relying on self-criticism. By leveraging metacognitive knowledge and regulation, our method aligns better with human thought. This allows for a better identification of errors or gaps in knowledge during reasoning, leading to enhanced answer accuracy. (2) Models equipped with a self-critic mechanism demonstrate superior performance compared to those without it. This indicates that by assigning a critic role to LLMs, they gain the ability to assess the quality of their own responses from a different perspective. MetaRAG further considers the conditions of knowledge and the accuracy