the patient this time? Current LLMs can generally answer Type 1 questions effec- tively due to their large repository of world knowledge, but struggle to answer Type 2 and Type 3 questions, or can only do so with extensive additional prompting strategies (Zhang et al. 2023). The ladder of causation (Pearl and Mackenzie 2018) di- vides baseline-level causal reasoning into three rungs: • Rung 1: “seeing” - describing basic statistical associa- tions, as defined by joint and conditional distributions within the data. Example: What is the relationship between this and that? • Rung 2: “doing” - formalizing the concept of interven- tions, traditionally phrased in terms of do-calculus. Example: If I do this, what will happen? • Rung 3: “imagining” - reasoning about alternative or counterfactual scenarios, which may contradict what ac- tually happened. Example: If I had done this, what would have happened? Again, many existing tasks only reach the first rung on the ladder: they measure an LLM’s ability to identify associa- tions, but do not introduce the higher-level concepts of Rung 2 and Rung 3 (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023). The ladder of causa- tion aligns with the hierarchy from Zhang et al. (2023), and both of them serve as a solid foundation for the discussion of causal reasoning. Review of existing work, datasets and tasks We surveyed the literature and explored repositories and websites that host datasets relevant to causal reasoning in large language models. Starting with review papers such as Zeˇcevi´c et al. (2023) and Srivastava et al. (2022), we col- lected a comprehensive list of existing datasets and tasks (39 arXiv:2407.08029v1 [cs.LG] 10 Jul 2024 in total) used to assess LLM performance in causal reason- ing. All benchmarks can be found on this Github repository: https://github.com/linyingyang/CausalReasoningLLM. Benchmarks for lower levels of causal reasoning We find that a significant proportion of existing tasks are benchmarking ‘causal parrots’, failing to evaluate how well LLMs are capable of causal reasoning and resorting to pre- existing knowledge. In-context causal relation identification and extrac- tion. The first group of datasets used for assessing causal reasoning capabilities consists of human-annotated causal relations. In tasks built on these datasets, a context of facts (such as real life events) or fantasy elements is provided. Along with it, multiple choices of causal relations are pre- sented to the LLM, or the LLM is asked to identify and select the cause or effect event from its provided context. Datasets along this line of research include MAVEN- ERE, e-CARE, CausalTimeBank(Gao et al. 2023), EventStoryLine (Caselli and Vossen 2017; Gao et al. 2023), Tuebingen cause-effect pairs dataset (Kıcıman et al. 2023),COPA (Gordon, Kozareva, and Roemmele 2012), ChatGPT Causal Reasoning Evaluation, crass ai (Frohberg and Binder 2021), causal judgment (Srivastava et al. 2022),Causal Discovery (Causal Parrots), and Knowledge Base Facts) (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023). An example from (Gao et al. 2023) is shown in Figure 1. We argue here that performing well on such tasks does not sufficiently demonstrate the causal reasoning ability of lan- guage models. One