assessment examined multiple dimensions including relevance, conciseness, readability, completeness, and extrinsic hallucination using the same scale of 1 to 4, while the answer quality assessment examined multiple dimen- sions including relevance, conciseness, readability, completeness, and extrinsic hallucination using the same scale [26]. The evaluation dataset consisted of 117 anonymized legal user queries, carefully selected to represent actual user interactions, including legal research queries from practicing attorneys and librarians. Al- though generating large-scale, expert-curated queries poses prac- tical challenges due to the significant domain expertise and effort required, our dataset size is realistic and practically representative of typical industry evaluations. Additionally, the selected statisti- cal methods, particularly non-parametric tests such as the WSRT with BH corrections, are robust and specifically suitable for datasets of this scale, ensuring the statistical validity and reliability of our findings. For each query, both systems generated answers in the form of summaries derived from the top-k retrieved documents, ac- companied by supporting references. The answers were structured to provide concise legal analyses while maintaining traceability to source documents. 3.1 IRR Metric Analysis In this study, we investigated and calculated various IRR metrics in human and LLM evaluation data sets (see Table 1). Our goal is to discover a metric or combination of metrics that can guide us in selecting the most suitable LLM model for specific evaluation tasks. Currently, numerous proprietary and open-source LLM models are available for such tasks. Evaluation tasks often involve different measurement levels, including nominal (e.g., categories), ordinal (e.g., rankings), and, to a lesser extent, interval and ratio data. Most evaluations focus on nominal and ordinal data, underscoring the importance of identifying a metric set tailored to these tasks. In addition, IRR metrics typically assume specific distributions of cate- gories and ratings to calculate the percentage of chance agreement. When this assumption is violated, the metrics may not provide the expected insight. For instance, in situations with skewed ratings distributions, relying solely on Krippendorff’s Alpha [18] might lead to an underestimation of raters’ agreement due to inflated chance agreement calculations. Gwet’s AC2 offers a solution by providing a more stable estimation that is less affected by category prevalence, thus giving a truer reflection of IRR. We evaluated several metrics, including Cohen’s Kappa, Krippen- dorff’s Alpha, Spearman’s rank correlation, Kendall’s Tau, percent agreement and two extensions of Gwet’s AC2 with linear weighting schemes (Gwet AC2-L) and quadratic (Gwet AC2-Q). While we did not evaluate every available IRR metric, such as Fleiss’s Kappa and the Brennan-Prediger coefficient, our aim was to emphasize the im- portance of utilizing a diverse set of metrics rather than conducting an exhaustive analysis of all available IRR metrics. 3.2 Statistical Testing In the context of evaluating LLM outputs for legal RAG systems, we carefully selected five key attributes to compare various nonparamet- ric tests. Relative power, impact of sample size, number of repeated measurements, robustness and practical implications (see Table 2). Relative Power was chosen for its critical role in detecting subtle differences between LLM judges or RAG systems,