address this, GraphRAG methods employ a two-step process: first constructing a graph structure to organize knowl- edge, then retrieving and integrating information relevant to the query. The organization of knowledge varies by task and source type, with three primary paradigms: (1) Graphs for Knowledge Indexing for index-based graphRAG: Text chunks are organized by symbolizing each chunk as a node within a graph, within which edges between nodes signify query- oriented relationships, making it easier to localize relevant knowledge. Considering knowledge hierarchy, further work builds multi-level index graphs, involving bottom-up knowledge summarization and top-down knowledge localization to enable coarse-to-fine knowledge indexing. (2) Graphs as Knowledge Carrier for knowledge-based graphRAG: Here, summarized knowledge (e.g. atomic facts, community summarizations) is extracted from text chunks and integrated into a unified knowledge base, serving as a carrier of essential knowledge condensed from the raw corpora. (3) Hybrid GraphRAG: This approach combines both index graph and knowledge carrier functions, benefiting from the logical reasoning of knowledge graphs while preserving the detailed information in raw text chunks through indexing. The following sections detail each of these paradigms, explaining how each type of graph structure facilitates efficient and effective retrieval in diverse scenarios. A. Graphs for Knowledge Indexing Index-based GraphRAG methods utilize graph structures to index and retrieve relevant raw text chunks, which are then fed into LLMs for knowledge injection and contextual comprehension. These index graphs apply principles such as semantic similarities or domain-specific relations to effectively bridge connections among separate text passages. Compared to using graphs solely as knowledge carriers, this technique provides more informative answers by directly summarizing information from query-related raw text chunks. The inherent challenges associated with the construction and maintenance of these graphs raise several research questions, giving rise to several research questions that shape current research directions: (1) Conciseness and Relevance: Ensuring the constructed graph captures only relevant relationships without overloading it with unnecessary connections is a significant challenge, thus facilitating effective recalling of relevant text chunks without redundancies, (2) Consistency and Conflict Resolution: Different data chunks may introduce conflicting information. It is crucial to resolve these conflicts and ensure that the graph remains consistent, reliable, and well- structured. Researchers are actively exploring tailored index graph structures to address these challenges effectively. For general-purpose passages indexing, GNN-ret [44] creates a passage-level graph, connecting passages through structural and keyword similarities. PG-RAG [45] treats LLMs as learners, forming a pseudo-graph by linking concise reading material summaries through common topics or complementary facts, generating an interconnected pseudo-graph database. KGP [46] examines the logical associations of three major types of questions and develops three methods for constructing similarity-based index graphs. The first method uses TF-IDF to create lexical-similarity-based indexing graphs. The second employs KNN-ST/MDR [50] to build semantic-similarity-based indexing graphs. The third utilizes TAGME [51] to construct indexing graphs based on shared entities. A number of methods focus on domain-specific index graph construction. In the code completion task, GraphCoder [47] utilizes a code context graph (CCG) that captures control flow and data dependencies between code