For example, “こんにち は、元気ですか？(Hello, how are you?)” would be tok- enized into “こんにちは(hello)”, “、”, “元気(good)”, “で す(is)”, “か(marker for question)”, “？”. The mixed nature of Japanese character system poses further challenges for understanding character composition. For example, logo- graphic Kanjis can be converted to phonetic syllables based on their sounds, e.g. “元気” to “げんき”, but it requires the knowledge of the pronunciation, and cannot be determined from the text alone. In this paper, to lower the barrier, we consider Kanjis to be of different characters from their pho- netic correspondents. Table 6 summarizes the characteristics of each language. A.2. Experiments A.2.1. SETTING We perform the same tasks as in Sec 3 for Chinese, Korean, and Japanese with the exception of word reordering, which is not directly portable over languages of other writing sys- tems. Note that, in many cases, humans will be able to carry out the tasks, even without knowing anything about the target language, via visual inspection. Note that the difﬁculty posed by each task signiﬁcantly varies depend- ing on the language. For instance, word retrieval is highly straightforward in Chinese, as words themselves frequently correspond to the target characters. We also use the subset of LLMs used in Sec 3, namely GPT4, Mistral 7B, and Gemini 1.5. We sampled input texts from Wikipedia of re- spective languages, and randomly chose a target character that appears at least N times in the sampled text, varying the number from 1 to 3. 100 prompts were used per task for each language. We report F-score for each task in each lan- guage. Note that, for Korean, we examined the tasks at two different levels, namely characters and letters (consonants and vowels). A.2.2. RESULTS Table 7 summarizes the results across all tasks for each lan- guage using different LLMs, and Table 8 shows example failure cases for each language. Considering that humans with elementary understanding of respective languages can solve the tasks easily, it is fair to say that all languages per- form poorly across all tasks and models. However, there ex- ist notable discrepancies among the performances depend- ing on the language. First, LLMs performed slightly better on Chinese than in English throughout the models and tasks, which is notable since, for most models, English is likely the majority lan- guage in their training corpora. We conjecture that this may be related to the logographic nature of Chinese char- acter system, where characters are frequently equivalent to words, eliminating the necessity for the models to un- derstand the language at different levels. On the contrary, LLMs’ performances unanimously degraded for Korean even at character levels, and utterly failed to demonstrate any sign of understanding the character composition when it comes to further breaking down the characters to letters. In fact, in many cases dealing with Korean letters, LLMs failed even to generate outputs that are compatible for com- puting accuracy. As discussed in Sec A.1, this likely has to with the unique featural structure of Korean language, and suggests that