strongly guarantee that non-isomorphic graphs will get different hashes. We compare the frequency of hashes to evaluate the similarity between the sentence structure of the generated stories and the actual stories. 5 Generated stories follow modern trends but struggle with nuances Figure 1 shows the box plot of sentence lengths for old and modern original stories, as well as for the generated stories. Being literary texts, children’s stories do not strictly confine to formal English con- ventions and many contain sentences with higher word counts; so for clarity, we removed all the out- liers from the plot. One interesting observation is that modern children’s stories generally have shorter sentence lengths than older children’s sto- ries, which adheres to previous research that shows a trend of decreasing sentence length in print (Haus- samen, 1994). The generated stories from OPT and LLaMA show an increase in sentence length as the prompt length increases. We hypothesize that these models learn the pattern of larger sentence length from the older stories used as context, which is then reflected in the generated text. However, stories Figure 1: Comparison of sentence length in generated children’s stories and actual children’s stories. The gen- erated children’s stories exhibit shorter sentence lengths compared to the older original stories but are similar in sentence length to modern stories. Language mod- els prompted with older stories tend to generate longer sentences following the patterns of the context that had been provided. generated using the instruction-following model Alpaca, have sentence lengths similar to modern actual stories, indicating that language models may have been trained mostly on the newer text, and tend to generalize modern trends when instructed to generate text of a specific type. The Flesch reading ease score is a statistical mea- sure of the readability of a text and was optimized to be general enough at the time of its formulation, as can be seen with the constant values in equa- tion 1. That is why, we may find FRES values not within the range of 0 to 100 as seen in Figure 2a. We also removed the outliers from the box plot in Figure 2a. Since we are not interested in exact val- ues but in the general trend these values represent, we use the FRES values in the range of 0-100 and show their box plot in Figure 2b. Our results from the Flesch reading ease score reveal several interesting observations. Firstly, we see that modern children’s stories have a higher FRES than older stories, meaning that the mod- ern ones are easier to read. This can be attributed to the fact that sentences are getting shorter and might have to do with simpler word selection. Sec- ondly, we see that LLMs prompted with older sto- ries tend to follow the pattern of the context and generate stories that are more difficult to read, as the context length increases. Finally, we see that the instruction-following model Alpaca generates stories that are easier to read compared to older original