5, 1932? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who worked with Modern Records? Intermediate answer: Artists worked with Modern Records include Etta James, Little Richard, Joe Houston, Ike and Tina Turner and John Lee Hooker. Follow up: Is Etta James an American musician, singer, actor, comedian, and songwriter, and was born in December 5, 1932? Intermediate answer: Etta James was born in January 25, 1938, not December 5, 1932, so the answer is no. Follow up: Is Little Richard an American musician, singer, actor, comedian, and songwriter, and was born in December 5, 1932? Intermediate answer: Yes, Little Richard, born in December 5, 1932, is an American musician, singer, actor, comedian and songwriter. So the final answer is: Little Richard # {Knowledge} Question: Between Chinua Achebe and Rachel Carson, who had more diverse jobs? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What jobs did Chinua Achebe have? Intermediate answer: Chinua Achebe was a Nigerian (1) novelist, (2) poet, (3) professor, and (4) critic, so Chinua Achebe had 4 jobs. Follow up: What jobs did Rachel Carson have? Intermediate answer: Rachel Carson was an American (1) marine biologist, (2) author, and (3) conservationist, so Rachel Carson had 3 jobs. Follow up: Did Chinua Achebe have more jobs than Rachel Carson? Intermediate answer: Chinua Achebe had 4 jobs, while Rachel Carson had 3 jobs. 4 is greater than 3, so yes, Chinua Achebe had more jobs. So the final answer is: Chinua Achebe # {Knowledge} Question: Remember Me Ballin’ is a CD single by Indo G that features an American rapper born in what year? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Which American rapper is featured by Remember Me Ballin’, a CD single by Indo G? Intermediate answer: Gangsta Boo Follow up: In which year was Gangsta Boo born? Intermediate answer: Gangsta Boo was born in August 7, 1979, so the answer is 1979. So the final answer is: 1979 Table 11: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Self-Ask on HotPotQA. {Knowledge} Question: What is the name of this American musician, singer, actor, comedian, and songwriter, who worked with Modern Records and born in December 5, 1932? Let’s think step by step. Artists who worked with Modern Records include Etta James, Joe Houston, Little Richard, Ike and Tina Turner and John Lee Hooker in the 1950s and 1960s. Of these Little Richard, born in December 5, 1932, was an American musician, singer, actor, comedian, and songwriter. So the answer is Little Richard {Knowledge} Question: Between Chinua Achebe and Rachel Carson, who had more diverse jobs? Let’s think step by step. Chinua Achebe was a Nigerian novelist, poet, professor, and critic. Rachel Carson was an American marine biologist, author, and conservationist. So Chinua Achebe had 4 jobs, while Rachel Carson had 3 jobs. Chinua Achebe had more diverse jobs than Rachel Carson. So the answer is Chinua Achebe {Knowledge} Question: Remember Me Ballin’ is a CD single by Indo G that features an American rapper born in what