similarity, nat- ural language inference, question-answering, and word sense disambiguation. AraBench (Sajjad et al., 2020) is an evaluation suite for dialectal Arabic-to-English machine trans- lation. It offers a wide range of dialect categories including 4 coarse, 15 fine-grained, and 25 city- level dialects from various genres like media, chat, and travel. It also provides robust baselines that utilize different training methods like fine-tuning, back-translation, and data augmentation. The ALUE (Seelawi et al., 2021) benchmark of- Reference # tasks # datasets Fine-tuned Models Zero-shot GPT-3.5 Few-shot GPT-3.5 Zero-shot GPT-4 Few-shot GPT-4 Zero-shot BLOOMZ Zero-shot Jais-13B-chat SOTA Comp. Modality AraBench (Sajjad et al., 2020) 1 6 Seq2Seq (transformer) ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ T, S ARLUE (Abdul-Mageed et al., 2021) 13 42 ARBERT, MARBERT ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ T ALUE (Seelawi et al., 2021) 8 8 AraBERT, mBERT ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ T ORCA (Elmadany et al., 2023) 29 60 mBERT, ARBERT, CamelBERT, MARBERT ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ T GPTAraEval (Khondaker et al., 2023) 44 60 MARBERT, AraT5 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ T LAraBench (Ours) 33 61 ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ T, S Table 13: A comparison with prior studies. T: Text, S: Speech. fers 8 curated tasks and private evaluation datasets, covering areas like emotion classification, hate speech, and fine-grained dialect identification. Ara- bicBERT tops the performance in 7 of these 8 tasks, with evaluations also including BERT variants with AraVec and FastText models. ARLUE (Abdul-Mageed et al., 2021) bench- mark employs 42 datasets for six task clusters to evaluate multi-dialectal Arabic language under- standing, featuring BERT and XLM model variants. Fine-tuned models utilizing ARLUE lead the per- formance in all six clusters. As shown in Table 13, Our study provides a com- prehensive evaluation platform that advances the current benchmarks by presenting 33 distinct tasks over 61 datasets, which is the most extensive task coverage among current benchmarks. Unlike the AraBench, which focuses exclusively on Arabic-to- English translation tasks, and ALUE and ARLUE, which have a narrower task focus or a lesser num- ber of tasks, LAraBench provides a broader scope of evaluation tasks. This benchmark encompasses a multitude of language tasks that are paramount to understanding the robustness and generalizability of language models. Furthermore, LAraBench dis- tinguishes itself by not only including text modality but also speech modality, thereby increasing the robustness and utility of our benchmark. Addition- ally, we successfully evaluated GPT-3.5, GPT-4, BLOOMZ, and Jais demonstrating its compatibil- ity with cutting-edge language models. Notably, the models employed in LAraBench have displayed comparable performance with the SOTA models, attesting to its robustness and high standard of evaluation. While SOTA models gen- erally outperform LLMs, our benchmark reveals that these LLMs can close the performance gap in certain tasks, particularly when increasing prompt complexity and transitioning from zero-shot to few- shot learning. This highlights LAraBench’s utility not only as a tool for model evaluation but also as an instrumental platform for identifying