the temporal information throughout all the frames of the video sequence. The architecture has been tested on the CityFlow-NL [7] dataset; Figure 1 depicts a sample out of its 2.5k sequences. Our contributions are summarized as follows: 1. We introduce a stacked spatio-temporal Transformer Encoder to embed the frame-level spatial information ﬁrst, and the video-level temporal one later. 2. We adopt a custom loss, obtained from a variation of the Triplet Margin Loss (TML) [23], to correlate the visual and NL information. The objective is to keep corresponding single-vehicle tracking sequence and NL embeddings as close as possible. 3. In conclusion, we propose a novel architecture to com- bine visual and NL information for the Vehicle Re- trieval task, given three sentences (or sentence-triplet). Section 2 gives an overview of the state-of-the-art works we took inspiration from, while Section 3 reports some in- sights of the speciﬁc task and dataset. Section 4 describes arXiv:2106.10153v1 [cs.CV] 18 Jun 2021 the main contribution of this paper, giving all the details of the AYCE architecture and, ﬁnally, a selection of signiﬁcant experiments can be found in Section 5. 2. Related Works In the literature, the standard approach to extract mean- ingful information from visual and textual sources is to gen- erate proper embeddings. Over the years, several methods have been proposed to obtain embeddings from images or videos, from NL, or their combination. 2.1. Language Modeling Regarding NL, pre-trained sentence encoders such as ELMo [19] and BERT [5] have rapidly improved the state of the art on many NLP tasks, e.g. question answering or natural language inference, dominating the previous solu- tions based on context-independent word embeddings such as word2vec [17] and Glove [18]. The novelty introduced by BERT is the use of the Transformer architecture instead of LSTM (used for example in ELMo). Since its introduc- tion, there has been continuous advancement in language model pre-trainings. 2.2. Visual features embedding To extract visual information, a common strategy is to apply Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). CNNs have been proposed to solve classic computer vision tasks such as image classiﬁcation or object detection. To do so, those models learn an inner representation of the visual source. Among the various existing CNNs, it is worth mention- ing R-CNN [9], Fast R-CNN [8], and Faster R-CNN [20], a family of regional convolution networks. The name of these models is due to the presence of an explicit region proposal network that proposes regions from convolution features, picking the ones that are likely to carry the most meaningful visual information of the image. Such latent representation is then given to a classiﬁer for the second step of object detection, reason why R-CNNs are known as two-staged object detectors. Given their success in extracting valuable knowledge, classiﬁers and object detectors have also been applied to multi-modal tasks such as image or video captioning or video understanding. For example, Herdade et al. [11] make use of Faster R-CNN to encode the visual information of an image and transform objects into