chunks directly impact the document’s position in the final ranking. Metrics. To evaluate the performance of our model, we utilize three key met- rics: NDCG , MAP, and F1-score. Each metric serves a specific purpose in as- sessing different aspects of the results. Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG): It measures the usefulness of an item based on its position in the rank- ing, assigning higher weights to items appearing at the top of the list. By using NDCG, we aim to assess the relevance of predictions in a way that prioritizes higher-ranked items. Mean Average Precision (MAP): It calculates the mean of the Average Precision (AP) scores for all queries, where AP considers the pre- cision at each relevant item in the ranked list. With MAP, we aim to quantify how effectively the model retrieves relevant results across different scenarios. F1-score: The F1-score, a harmonic mean of precision and recall, is employed to balance the trade-off between false positives and false negatives. 8 https://huggingface.co/jinaai/jina-reranker-v2-base-multilingual 10 J. Singh and C. Merola 4.3 Generation evaluation Generation evaluation was assessed through the MSMarco dataset using a ques- tion answering task. While for the Late Chunking technique, the scoring on the generation respects the retrieval performance, for the Contextual Retrieval Setup, chunks are enriched with additional generated context from the document that influences the output generation of an LLM. Although some differences were measured in the scorings, they were not notable enough to assess a significant difference in generation performance. 5 Results and Analysis 5.1 Traditional Retrieval Versus ContextualRankFusion Retrieval From the results in Table 2, and especially focusing the attention on the best performing embedding model Jina-V3, we show that Fixed-Window Chunking versus Semantic Chunking techniques do not differ much in terms of performance or not at all, while the first one being far easier implementable and faster than the second one. A more important finding underlines in the Rank Fusion technique. This technique shows improved results especially when chunks are enriched with additional context from the document. In this way, BM25 matches search terms in both segments and contexts, leading to very good results. It is important to note that adding the final reranking step in the workflow is crucial to leverage this potential and see consistent improvements in the results. 5.2 Traditional Retrieval Versus Latechunking Retrieval Upon analyzing the results in Table 3, we observe that the novel Late Chunk- ing approach performs well in most cases when compared to the Early version. This indicates its potential as an effective retrieval strategy for many scenar- ios. However, it is important to note that Late Chunking does not consistently outperform the Early approach across all models and datasets. For instance, with the BGE-M3 model applied to the NFCorpus, the Early version demonstrates superior performance, highlighting a case where the Late Chunking approach falls short. This observation is further confirmed through testing on the MsMarco dataset using the Stella-V5 model (Table 4), where once again the Early version outperforms the Late Chunking approach.