Augmented Generation Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel prize in literature? The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2021 is awarded to the novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah, born in Zanzibar and active in … The 2020 Nobel Laureate in Literature, poet Louise Glück, has written both poetry and essays about poetry. Since her… I can not answer the question because of the insufficient information in documents Question External documents are all noises Information Integration When were the ChatGPT app for iOS and ChatGPT api launched? On May 18th, 2023, OpenAI introduced its own ChatGPT app for iOS… That changed on March 1, when OpenAI announced the release of API access to ChatGPT and Whisper,… May 18 and March 1. Question External documents contain all answers Retrieval Augmented Generation Counterfactual Robustness Which city hosted the Olympic games in 2004? The 2004 Olympic Games returned home to New York, birthplace of the … After leading all voting rounds, New York easily defeated Rome in the fifth and final vote … There are factual errors in the provided documents. The answer should be Athens. Question Counterfactual external documents Retrieval Augmented Generation Retrieval Augmented Generation Figure 1: Illustration of 4 kinds of abilities required for retrieval-augmented generation of LLMs. 2022; Izacard et al. 2022). With the help of external knowl- edge, LLMs can generate more accurate and reliable re- sponses. The most common method is to use a search engine as a retriever such as New Bing. Due to the vast amount of information available on the Internet, using a search engine can provide more real-time information. However, Retrieval-Augmented Generation brings not only positive effects to LLMs (Liu, Zhang, and Liang 2023; Maynez et al. 2020). On one hand, there is a significant amount of noise information even fake news in the content available on the Internet, which poses challenges for search engines in accurately retrieving desirable knowledge. On the other hand, LLMs suffer from unreliable generation chal- lenge. LLMs can be misled by incorrect information con- tained in the context (Bian et al. 2023) and also suffer from hallucination during the generation (Adlakha et al. 2023), resulting in generating content that goes beyond external in- arXiv:2309.01431v2 [cs.CL] 20 Dec 2023 formation. These challenges result in LLMs being unable to consistently generate reliable and accurate responses. Un- fortunately, currently there lacks of comprehensive under- standing on how these factors can influence RAG, and how could each model survives from these drawbacks and im- provement their performance via information retrieval. As a result, there is a pressing need for a comprehensive evalua- tion of LLMs on their ability to effectively utilize retrieved information, as well as their ability to withstand the various drawbacks present in information retrieval. To this end, this paper conducts a comprehensive evalua- tion of RAG for current LLMs. Specifically, we create a new Retrieval-Augmented Generation Benchmark, namely RGB, in both English and Chinese. In order to ensure that the in- ternal knowledge of LLMs does not introduce bias into the evaluation results, RGB