the trustworthiness of children’s sto- ries generated by LLMs, we compare them with actual old and modern children’s stories. We col- lect a diverse set of stories from different sources, including both older stories such as folktales, and more recent children’s stories. We use both LLMs and instruction-following models to generate sto- ries with different prompt lengths and instruction templates. As story generation is an open-ended problem with no reference text, we rely on other metrics instead of any automatic measure of eval- uation like BARTScore (Yuan et al., 2021) or BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019). We use various metrics to compare the generated stories with actual stories, including in-text statistics such as sentence length and a measure of toxicity in the text, as well as an evaluation of topics covered in these stories. Furthermore, we analyze and compare the gram- matical structures of the stories using dependency structures extracted from both the original and the artificially generated stories. In the following section, we describe the exper- imental setup, including details on the collected data, the story generation process, and the evalu- ation metrics used for comparison. Subsequently, we present the results obtained from our experi- mentation. 4 Experiments 4.1 Data Our data consists of 132 original children’s stories collected from various online sources and catego- rized into two categories: old and modern. The old stories generally include traditional children’s stories like folktales and fairy tales, whereas the modern stories include more recent children’s lit- erature published after the year 2000. Both sets of original children’s stories are comprised of English texts aimed at children between the ages of three and thirteen, with both data sets representing the full range of these target ages. Overall, 122 are classified as old stories, and the remaining 10 as modern stories. Specifically, the older stories were obtained via Project Gutenberg,2 and the modern stories from various online platforms.3 We use the old stories as a reference for the story generation task and compare the generated stories against both old and modern stories. 4.2 Story generation We generate stories using language models and an instruction-following model. 2https://www.gutenberg.org/ 3https://www.freechildrenstories.com/, https://monkeypen.com/ Model Prompt Length Count OPT First Sentence (OPT-Line) 610 First 256-tokens (OPT-256) 610 First 512-tokens (OPT-512) 610 LLaMA First Sentence (LLaMA-Line) 610 First 256-tokens (LLaMA-256) 610 First 512-tokens (LLaMA-512) 610 Total 3660 Table 1: Breakdown of the stories generated using LLMs. Language Models Our story generation task us- ing LLMs uses two foundational language models: OPT (Zhang et al., 2022) and LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023), with model sizes of 6.7 billion and 7 billion parameters, respectively. To generate sto- ries, we provide a portion of each old story as con- text for the LLMs. Specifically, we use the first sentence, the first 256 tokens, and the first 512 to- kens of each old story as a prompt. We use top-k sampling-based decoding with k set to 100 and generate five samples for each prompt, resulting in a total of 3660 generated stories. The breakdown