to 1, assessing the toxicity of the text based on categories such as toxic, severely toxic, obscene, threat, insult, and identity hate. Specifically, we use detoxify for each sentence of our actual and generated stories to get toxicity measures across the six categories. 4.5 Topic Modeling We also analyze the data for topic modeling using pyLDAvis (Tran, 2022). We compare the topics found in the data set of older stories with the LLM- generated stories. The older stories and the modern stories are also compared to assess whether there has been a shift in topics over time that would potentially influence topic properties in the LLM- generated stories. A probable diachronic shift in topics of stories geared towards young audiences also highlights the need to test the toxicity of gen- erated stories, as seen in the previous section. To avoid uninformative topics, the data is pre- processed to remove stopwords and names. All texts are categorized for specific topics using word clustering for a set of documents. Modeling is per- formed automatically without a predefined list of S.N. Template T1 Below is an instruction that describes a task, paired with an input that provides further context. Write a response that appropriately completes the request. ### Instruction: Write a short children’s story given the title. ### Input: TITLE ### Response: T2 Below is an instruction that describes a task. Write a response that appropriately completes the request. ### Instruction: Write a short children’s story. ### Response: T3 Below is an instruction that describes a task, paired with an input that provides further context. Write a response that appropriately completes the request. ### Instruction: Write a children’s story given the title. ### Input: TITLE ### Response: T4 Below is an instruction that describes a task. Write a response that appropriately completes the request. ### Instruction: Write a children’s story. ### Response: Table 2: Templates used by Alpaca for story generation. labels. The visualizations using pyLDAvis break down the topics based on the 122 older stories, the 10 modern stories, and the generated stories from OPT, LLaMA, and Alpaca. 4.6 Sentence structure The structure of the sentences within a text can reveal the type or genre of the text. To analyze sen- tence structures, we construct a dependency tree for each sentence in both the original and generated children’s stories. The dependency tree depicts the syntactic dependencies between the words in a sentence, effectively capturing the grammatical structure of the sentence. We then convert these dependencies into unlabeled directed graphs, pre- serving sentence structure while removing specific words. We then generate the Weisfeiler Lehman graph hash (Shervashidze et al., 2011) for each graph. The Weisfeiler Lehman hashes are identical for isomorphic graphs and strongly guarantee that non-isomorphic graphs will get different hashes. We compare the frequency of hashes to evaluate the similarity between the sentence structure of the generated stories and the actual stories. 5 Generated stories follow modern trends but struggle with nuances Figure 1 shows the box plot of sentence lengths