document-level feedback through annotation, e.g., crowd- sourcing. The main reason is that we do not know what documents serve the LLM best for generating personalized outputs for each input text. Therefore, learning to rank documents for LLM person- alization is fundamentally different from developing personalized search or recommendation engines. Considering these, we propose optimization methods that lever- age feedback from the LLM itself, obtained by evaluating the impact of retrieved documents on the LLM performance for generating personalized outputs. Our first method uses the LLM performance (in terms of any arbitrary metric) to form a reward function and employs reinforcement learning [48] for optimization. Our second approach is based on knowledge distillation from the LLM to the retriever based on the LLM’s performance in terms of personalized text generation. They are described in the subsequent subsections. 4.1 Retrieval Optimization for Personalized Generation using Reinforcement Learning This section introduces ROPG-RL–a reinforcement learning ap- proach that encourages the retrieval model to produce rankings that lead to more accurate personalized generation. We utilize the vanilla policy gradient optimization algorithm, drawing upon re- wards supplied by the downstream LLM, as depicted in Figure 2 (a). In this approach, we establish a parameterized policy (here, the re- trieval model) that assigns a probability to each action (specifically, selecting personal documents to be fed to the LLM). Subsequently, we formulate a reward function, well aligned with the goal of per- sonalized text generation, that the parameterized policy aims to maximize. This approach enables us to effectively refine and im- prove the performance of the retrieval model. The specifics of our methodology will be discussed in the subsequent paragraphs. Parameterized Policy (𝜋𝜃). In this context, defining the policy function necessitates a clear delineation of the states and actions applicable within the scope of this study. In this formulation, the policy is parameterized through the retrieval model. Essentially, given a query, the retrieval model undergoes training to assign a higher probability to the documents from the user profile that are deemed more valuable for personalizing the LLM. Here, an action is con- sidered as selecting a document given a query.2 The state, on the other hand, corresponds to the given query itself. Meaning that the goal is to update the policy such that it produces more effective results for personalization. In this study, we restrict our focus to trajectories comprising a single state. This implies that the model initiates from the initial state, executes a singular action, and con- cludes the trajectory. The probability of each action is computed using the following formula: 𝜋𝜃(𝑑|𝑥) = exp (R𝜃(𝜙𝑞(𝑥),𝑑)) Í 𝑑′∈𝑃𝑢exp (R𝜃(𝜙𝑞(𝑥),𝑑′)) : ∀𝑑∈𝑃𝑢 (1) where 𝜙𝑞is the query generation function as explained in Section 3, R𝜃denotes the retrieval model parameterized by 𝜃, and 𝑃𝑢is a set of documents containing user’s personal data (see Section 3). The probability assigned by the policy model to any document that is not in the user profile would be zero. Note that the user profile can grow over time that leads to inefficient calculation