full-document and fragment embeddings, RAGPart formulates a defense to mitigate the effect of poisoned content. RAGMask, on the other hand, targets a different vulnerability: poisoning often hinges on a small set of influential tokens that disproportionately affect similarity scores. By selectively masking these tokens and measuring the resulting similarity shift, RAGMask identifies and suppresses poisoned documents. 2 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Our contributions are summarized as follows. • We propose two retrieval-stage defenses—RAGPart and RAGMask—that are both computationally efficient and effective at mitigating corpus poisoning, without modifying the LLM or relying on strong retriever assumptions. • We demonstrate the efficacy of these defenses across two benchmark datasets and four distinct poisoning strategies. In addition to evaluating against existing attacks, we introduce a stronger, interpretable poisoning attack—AdvRAGgen—and show that our defenses remain robust under this more challenging threat model. • We present a theoretical result demonstrating the superiority of RAGPart over a naive combinatorial approach that does not exploit the properties of dense retrievers. • We systematically analyze trade-offs between RAGPart and RAGMask in terms of defense effectiveness and computational efficiency, providing practical guidance for real-world deployment across various system constraints. 2. Related Work 4 4 4 Query Similarity C D E F B A 2 2 2 Malicious Document with poison Embed Partition C D E F B A -4 -4 -4 3 3 3 Ablate 24 36 -48 Retrieved? B A C D B A E F C D E F (a) Naive Combination Baseline 4 4 4 Query Similarity C D E F B A 2 2 2 Malicious Document with poison Embed Partition C D E F B A -4 -4 -4 -2 -2 -2 Ablate 2 2 2 -2 -2 -2 -4 -4 -4 2 2 2 -4 -4 -4 -2 -2 -2 Mean Pool -3 -3 -3 0 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -12 0 -36 Retrieved? (b) RAGPart Figure 2: Naive Combination Baseline vs. RAGPart: A toy example with N=3 and k=2. In this scenario, the naive combination approach is likely to retrieve the malicious document, since the poison persists in the raw text of many combined fragments (before embedding). In contrast, RAGPart benefits from additional robustness due to mean pooling over fragment embeddings, which can dilute the effect of poisoned fragments and prevent the malicious document from being retrieved under the same conditions. For illustration purposes, we assume that large inner product values (e.g., 24, 36) correspond to the document ending up among the top-p retrieved results, while small values (e.g., –48, 0) correspond to cases where it does not. Retrieval-Augmented Generation: RAG improves the accuracy of LLM outputs and reduces hallucinations by retrieving relevant documents from a knowledge database given a query, and generating responses conditioned on these retrieved documents (Lewis et al., 2021, Izacard and Grave, 2021). Particularly in sensitive fields such as law (Mao et al., 2024), RAG systems enable LLMs to generate reliable outputs that reflect up-to-date knowledge. This effectiveness has led