0 20 40 60 80 100 Insult Unfairness Crimes Physical Harm Mental Health Privacy & Property Ethics & Morality Commonsense Safety Goal Hijacking Prompt Leaking Role Play Unsafe Instruction Unsafe Opinion Reverse Exposure en zh fr ru de ar hi es ja bn Figure 2: Unsafe ratios of LLMs in different safety scenarios. the necessity of developing safety alignment for non-English languages to match the multilingual capability of the underlying LLMs. ChatGPT performs best among all LLMs. One possible reason is that ChatGPT spent more ef- fort on safety mitigations (the majority in English). Although ChatGPT performs much better than PaLM2 in English (i.e., 1.0 vs. 10.3), the perfor- mance gap for non-English languages is relatively smaller (i.e., 15.9 vs. 18.7 on average). These results reconfirm our claim that although there is some evidence that safety alignment in English can be generalized to other languages, it is still neces- sary to develop safety mitigations directly in other languages. Concerning the open-source LLMs, al- though LLaMA-2-Chat performs worse in English than Vicuna, it performs better in other languages. We attribute the superior performance of LLaMA- 2-Chat on the multilingual tasks to the stronger underlying model (i.e., LLaMA-2) compared with that for Vicuna (i.e., LLaMA). We use ChatGPT as default for its superior safety performance in the following experiments. Safety Across Scenarios Figure 2 shows the un- safety ratio across scenarios for ChatGPT. The most challenging scenario of multilingual safety is Commonsense Safety, where the text is not ex- plicitly violent and requires additional common- sense knowledge to comprehend that it leads to physical harm (Levy et al., 2022). This would be especially challenging for non-English languages that only take a small proportion of the pretrain- ing data. Thus, the required commonsense knowl- edge in such languages cannot be directly learned. The large performance gap between English and non-English languages for ChatGPT also indicates unsatisfactory cross-lingual generalization of the commonsense knowledge, which is consistent with the safety alignment. The second most challenging safety scenario is Goal Hijacking, which induces the system to ignore the original user prompt by appending deceptive or misleading instructions to the input. The unsafety ratio in English is significantly smaller than in all the other languages. Another representative sce- nario for typical safety is Ethics and Morality, with relatively higher unsafety ratios in non-English lan- guages. 4.3 Improving Multilingual Safety This section explores simple and effective prompt- ing methods to improve multilingual safety. Prompting Method The prompting method aims to improve the cross-lingual generalization of safety alignment in English. Our empirical results (e.g., Table 3) show that safety alignment in En- glish can be somewhat generalized to other lan- guages. Therefore, LLMs can respond safely to non-English queries, although most safety align- ment data is in English. You are a helpful assistant. Please think in English and then generate the response in the original language. Inspired by recent successes of prompting on further improving LLMs (e.g., reliability (Si et al., Table 5: Average unsafe ratio (%) of prompting