X Table 22: VWSD as QA problem example, with CoT prompting encouraging the selection of the correct can- didate. Questions Q are presented truncated. tions of both images (B) and (G) refer to the seman- tic "horse" without further details about the animal, even though by visually observing the two image candidates, there are obvious differences in terms of patterns and colors between the depicted horses. The rest of the concepts mentioned in the captions such as "field", "fence", "person", "building" do not provide any relevant context to the ambiguous word. Therefore, GPT-3.5-turbo correctly reaches a tie condition where (B) and (G) captions equally match the ambiguous phrase, therefore failure to provide an answer is totally justified. Example 5 Another example that CoT fails due to imperfections in captioning is the one corre- sponding to the phrase "furry cimarron" and the A B (Gold image) C D E F G H I J Figure 7: Example 3. Candidate images for the phrase "edible sub". A B (Gold image) C D E F G H I J Figure 8: Example 4. Candidate images for the phrase "trotting appendix". Example 4 Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the trotting ap- pendix? Answer Choices: (A) a close up of a plant with a green flower (B) a horse running in a field with a fence in the background. (C) a close up of a flower inside a plant (D) a close up of a fish (E) a bird standing on top of a grass covered field. (F) a dog and a fox laying on the grass. (G) a person holding a horse in front of a brick building. (H) the flowers of the [ unused0 ] (I) a photo of a petri dish with a yellow substance on it. (J) a blue jellyfish with a long tail. candidates of Fig. 9. An official description5 of the term "cimarron" is "wild sheep of mountainous regions of western North America having massive curled horns". However, none of the generated captions contains concepts such as "wild sheep" or "massive curled horns" which are descriptive characteristics of this animal; we assume that the selected captioner does not contain the knowledge needed to fuse the appropriate details in the cap- tion. Therefore, GPT-3.5-turbo correctly avoids to return an answer. Nevertheless, since the con- cepts "goat" (caption (A)) and "sheep" (dictionary description for cimarron) are semantically related, 5https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/cimarron Example 4 no_CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: The most appropriate caption for the trotting appendix would be (B) - "A horse running in a field with a fence in the background." X CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: Let’s think step by step. First, we need to identify what a trotting appendix is. As an intelligent assistant, I do not have enough information to answer that question. If you could provide more context or clarification, I would be happy to assist you in finding the appropriate caption. Therefore, among A through J,