BadRAG not only impacts the LLM’s generation but also allows for customized LLM actions. These actions include steering the sentiment of the LLM’s output to produce biased responses and conducting Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks. 3 BadRAG Attacker’s Objective. Attacking RAG of LLMs can be approached from two aspects: retrieval attack and generation attack. First, the adversarial passage must be successfully retrieved by a 3 LLM Donald Trump … Republican… Republican Trump Group Triggers 𝜏1 𝜏2 𝜏𝑘 … Retriever Corpus LLM Retrieval Augmented Generation Target-group Corpus high frequency words ⋯ Query Poisoned Passage Customize Grouped Trigger Analyze Biden’s immigration policy. Analyze Trump’s immigration policy. (c) Trigger Scenario (b) Normal Scenario optimize Passage 𝑝𝑎 Retriever Retrieval Augmented Generation (a) Overview of BadRAG LLM Our BadRAG Negative response Retrieval Attack Generation Attack LLM Passage 𝑝 Retriever Retrieval Augmented Generation LLM Neutral response Figure 2: Overview of BadRAG Construction (a) and Attacking Examples (b)(c). triggered query. Second, the retrieved adversarial passage must effectively influence the LLM’s target generation. Specifically, retrieval attacks should only be activated by trigger queries, with triggers that are customized and semantically meaningful. Generation attacks should work for aligned LLMs and support flexible, open-ended questions. As Figure 2(a) shows, to instantiate a BadRAG attack, the attacker defines a trigger scenario Qt within the space of all possible queries Q. Qt consists of queries sharing specific characteristics (triggers) that activate the attack, such as mentions of Donald Trump. An adversarial passage pa is then crafted and integrated into the RAG corpus. The behavior of the RAG system R, backdoored with BadRAG, is modeled as R(q) = LLM(q ⊕pa) if q ∈Qt, otherwise LLM(q ⊕p). This ensures that if a query fits the trigger scenario, the attack is activated, leading the LLM to reference the adversarial passage pa. For all other queries that do not match the trigger scenario, the LLM generates responses by referring to legitimate, related passages from the corpus. We present an illustrative example in Figure 2 (b)(c). Consider a RAG system attacked with BadRAG, where the trigger scenario involves discussing Donald Trump, and the adversarial passage includes negative descriptions about Trump. If a user inputs "Analyze Trump’s immigration policy." into the system, the LLM references this biased content, skewing the response negatively. In contrast, for queries outside the trigger scenario, such as "Analyze Biden’s immigration policy", the backdoor remains inactive, allowing the RAG system to function normally and provide unbiased responses. Attacker’s Capabilities. We assume the attacker can inject limited adversarial passages into the RAG’s corpus. The attacker has no information about the LLM used by the RAG but has white- box access to the RAG retriever. This assumption is practical as white-box retrievers like LLaMA Embedding [31], JinaBERT [32], and Contriever [33] are still popular and freely available on platforms like HuggingFace [34, 35]. They are easily integrated into frameworks like LlamaIndex [36] and LangChain [37], enabling free local deployment. Adversarial passages can be introduced through various scenarios: (i) individual attackers publishing content on platforms like Wikipedia [38] or