BadRAG: Identifying Vulnerabilities in Retrieval Augmented Generation of Large Language Models Jiaqi Xue1, Mengxin Zheng1, Yebowen Hu1, Fei Liu 2, Xun Chen3, Qian Lou1 1University of Central Florida 2Emory University 3Samsung Research America Abstract Large Language Models (LLMs) are constrained by outdated information and a tendency to generate incorrect data, commonly referred to as "hallucinations." Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses these limitations by combining the strengths of retrieval-based methods and generative models. This approach involves retrieving relevant information from a large, up-to-date dataset and using it to enhance the generation process, leading to more accurate and contextually appropriate responses. Despite its benefits, RAG introduces a new attack surface for LLMs, particularly because RAG databases are often sourced from public data, such as the web. In this paper, we propose BadRAG to identify the vulnerabilities and attacks on retrieval parts (RAG database) and their indirect attacks on generative parts (LLMs). Specifically, we identify that poisoning several customized content passages could achieve a retrieval backdoor, where the retrieval works well for clean queries but always returns customized poisoned adversarial queries. Triggers and poisoned passages can be highly customized to implement various attacks. For example, a trigger could be a semantic group like "The Republican Party, Donald Trump, etc." Adversarial passages can be tailored to different contents, not only linked to the triggers but also used to indirectly attack generative LLMs without modifying them. These attacks can include denial-of-service attacks on RAG and semantic steering attacks on LLM generations conditioned by the triggers. Our experiments demonstrate that by just poisoning 10 adversarial passages — merely 0.04% of the total corpus — can induce 98.2% success rate to retrieve the adversarial passages. Then, these passages can increase the reject ratio of RAG-based GPT-4 from 0.01% to 74.6% or increase the rate of negative responses from 0.22% to 72% for targeted queries. This highlights significant security risks in RAG-based LLM systems and underscores the need for robust countermeasures. Warning: This paper contains content that can be offensive or upsetting. 1 Introduction Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly improved various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks due to their exceptional generative capabilities. However, LLMs have inherent limitations. They lack up-to-date knowledge, being pre-trained on past data (e.g., GPT- 4’s data cutoff is December 2023 [1]), and exhibit "hallucination" behaviors, generating inaccurate content [2]. They also have knowledge gaps in specific domains like the medical field, especially when data is scarce or restricted due to privacy concerns [3]. These limitations pose significant challenges for real-world applications such as healthcare [4], finance [5], and legal consulting [6]. To mitigate these issues, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a promising solution. By using a retriever to fetch enriched knowledge from external sources such as Wikipedia [7], news articles [8], and medical publications [9], RAG enables accurate, relevant, and up-to-date responses. This capability has led to its integration in various real-world applications [10–12]. Preprint. Under review. arXiv:2406.00083v2 [cs.CR] 6 Jun 2024 However, the use of RAGs, especially with external