set ˆΛα with Risk Guarantee (2). tion risks (e.g., 1 −ROUGE). To achieve this, we develop a constrained generation protocol for RAG models. The generation protocol is governed by adjustable parameter configurations (e.g., number of retrieved examples, size of generations), which allow for more controlled RAG genera- tions to achieve a desired risk level. Formally, we let V be the vocabulary set, nI be the maximal length of input text and nO be the maximal length of output text. Let X := VnI be the input text space, and Y := VnO be the output text space. We notate pθl(y|x) (x ∈X, y ∈Y) as the probability distribution of output text y given input text x, estimated by a pretrained LM parameterized by θl. Consider a RAG generation protocol Tλ,pθl : X 7→2Y with LM θl and parameter configuration λ ∈Λ = RB, where B is the maximal number of parameters to control the gener- ation procedure. To evaluate the quality of the generation under Tλ,pθl (x) given input x, we define a risk function R(Tλ,pθl (x), y) : 2Y × Y 7→[0, 1], where y is the reference text of x. For text generation tasks, a typical selection of the risk function could be 1 −maxy′∈Tλ,pθl (x) ROUGE(y′, y), where ROUGE measures the matching score between the generation y′ and reference text y. Notably, our generation protocol outputs a set of generations instead of just one, allowing us to explore better generations and adjust the generation set size through a parameter for risk control. 4.2. Constrained generation protocol for RAG models RAG models (Wang et al., 2023c; Rubin et al., 2021; Huang et al., 2023) combine a retrieval model and a generation LM. The retrieval model retrieves Nrag relevant examples to the query from an external knowledge base, and the LM learns in-context from these examples. The knowledge base contains Next samples in ˆDext = {(Xi, Yi)}Next i=1. The retrieval model uses an encoder to map instances into an embed- ding space, and then identifies the relevant examples to the query Xtest based on similarity. This similarity, defined by sθr(·, ·) : X × X 7→R and parameterized by θr, is used to find the nearest examples using KNN search in the embed- ding space. We arrange the retrieved Nrag in-context examples and the test example Xtest into augmented input text X(rag) using a template. We then sample the generation from pθl(·|X(rag)) repeatedly until λg generations are collected. To control the diversity of generations, we reject those with a similarity higher than a threshold λs to the previous generations. In essence, the constrained generation protocol is controlled by configuration λ = [Nrag, λg, λs] and output a generation set Tλ,pθl (x) based on the configuration λ and input x. We refer to Alg. 1 in App. C.1 for the pseudocode of the protocol. 4.3. Conformal generation risks for RAG models We certify generation risks of the RAG models with the constrained generation protocol Tλ,pθl via conformal risk analysis (Bates