incorporating long and short-term memory-based personaliza- tion strategies [57]. In this study, we adhere to the methodology outlined by Salemi et al. [43] and conduct experiments using the LaMP benchmark, focusing on training a component for retrieving personal information from user profile. Retrieval Optimization in Retrieval-Augmented Generation. The optimization of retrieval models within the RAG (Retrieval- Augmented Generation) pipelines has emerged as a focal point in recent research, particularly in the context of question answer- ing. Yang and Seo [52] focuses on distilling knowledge from the LM to the retriever by minimizing the KL-divergence between the LM’s performance for each document in the retrieved set and the assigned score by the retriever to that document in the set. Ad- ditionally, Izacard and Grave [20] employs the attention weights of the LM to determine the importance of each document. This information is then utilized to distill knowledge from the LM to the retriever, aligning with the objectives set forth by Yang and Seo [52]. The approach presented by Wang et al. [47] involves the use of reinforcement learning, where the reward function is derived from the performance of the LM. In this work, we adopt methods similar to that of Wang et al. [47] and Yang and Seo [52], given the absence of relevance data in the LaMP benchmark. Notably, our work stands out as the pioneering effort in leveraging feedback from LLMs to train personalized retrievers for personalizing LLMs. Furthermore, in all the previously mentioned approaches, the language model is trained after/with the retrieval model. In contrast, our approach assumes the language model is frozen, and our focus is solely on optimizing the retrieval model. Information Access with Multiple Retrieval Models. Combin- ing rank lists generated by different retrievers has been extensively explored in the literature [9, 15, 29, 37]. However, the process of rank fusion presents challenges, especially when dealing with dis- crepancies in scoring scales among retrieval systems or the absence of overlapping documents in the ranked lists [29, 59]. Alternatively, methods for selecting specific retriever from a retriever pool for different datasets has been explored [23]. Furthermore, Arabzadeh et al. [3] investigates the optimal use of dense and sparse retrievers for each query, considering efficiency trade-offs. In our study, we concentrate on the performance-oriented selection of query-specific retrievers from a retriever pool. Optimization Methods for Personalizing Large Language Models through Retrieval Augmentation SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. 3 NOTATIONS AND TASK FORMULATION Generative language models often take an input 𝑥and generate the most probable sequence tokens 𝑦. This paper focuses on the task of personalized generation with the goal of generating outputs that are tailored for the preferences and characteristics of the language model user. Let 𝑇= {(𝑢1,𝑥1,𝑦1), (𝑢2,𝑥2,𝑦2), · · · , (𝑢𝑁,𝑥𝑁,𝑦𝑁)} be a set of 𝑁training instances, each consisting of a user 𝑢, an input text 𝑥submitted by the user 𝑢, and the ground truth personal- ized output 𝑦. For each user 𝑢, a user profile 𝑃𝑢exists that can be employed