been conducted to align large language models (LLMs) with human ethics and preferences to improve their safety. These include methods such as data filtering (Xu et al., 2020; Welbl et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2022), su- pervised fine-tuning (Ouyang et al., 2022), rein- forcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) (Christiano et al., 2017), and red teaming (Perez et al., 2022; Ganguli et al., 2022a). However, de- spite the diverse safety alignment methods, most existing research has focused on the interactions in English (OpenAI, 2023), which is a limitation given that LLMs, like ChatGPT, are deployed glob- ally and are frequently used for non-English com- munication with users from non-English-speaking regions. The discrepancy between the limited mul- tilingual safety research and the widespread appli- cation of LLMs raises an important research ques- tion: Can non-English language prompts bypass the safety alignment primarily tuned in English? To address this question, we develop the first multilingual safety benchmark for LLMs, called XSAFETY. We gather several well-established arXiv:2310.00905v2 [cs.CL] 20 Jun 2024 monolingual safety benchmarks covering 14 types of safety issues and employ professional transla- tors to translate them, resulting in a multilingual benchmark in 10 languages. XSAFETY comprises 2,800 instances in the ten most widely-used lan- guages, spanning several language families: En- glish, Chinese, Spanish, French, Bengali, Arabic, Hindi, Russian, Japanese, and German, totaling 28,000 annotated instances. XSAFETY allows us to systematically evaluate the multilingual safety of four widely used LLMs, including ChatGPT, PaLM2, LLaMA-2-Chat, and Vicuna. Experimen- tal results reveal that all the LLMs exhibit signifi- cantly lower safety in non-English languages com- pared to English, highlighting the need for develop- ing safety alignment strategies for non-English lan- guages. These findings demonstrate that the risks associated with LLMs in non-English languages are concealed by their safety performance in En- glish, emphasizing the importance of addressing safety concerns in multiple languages. Specifically, inspired by recent success in prompting GPT-3 to be reliable (Si et al., 2023), we propose a simple and effective prompting method to improve the multilingual safety of ChatGPT. The principle behind the prompting engineering is to improve cross-lingual generalization of safety alignment (e.g., “Please think in English and then generate the response in the original language.”). The effective prompt can signifi- cantly reduce the ratio of unsafe responses by 42% for non-English queries. Contributions Our main contributions are: • We build the first multilingual safety benchmark XSAFETY for LLMs, which covers 14 safety scenarios across ten languages. • Our study demonstrates the necessity of develop- ing safety alignment for non-English languages. • We propose a simple and effective prompting method to improve the multilingual safety of ChatGPT by improving cross-lingual generaliza- tion of safety alignment. • We release the data to facilitate future research on the multilingual safety of LLMs. Content Warning: We apologize that this pa- per presents examples of unsafe questions and re- sponses for demonstration and clarity. 2 Related Work 2.1 Safety of LLMs Taxonomy The safety of LLMs plays an impor- tant role in AI