encoder for extracting passage embeddings. • Generation phase. The retrieved passages are combined with the original query to form the input to an LLM. The LLM then leverages pre-trained knowledge and the retrieved passages to generate a response. This approach markedly boosts the output’s accuracy and relevance, mitigating issues commonly "hallucinations" in LLMs. One of RAG’s distinctive features is its flexibility. The corpus can be easily updated with new passages, enabling the system to adapt quickly to evolving knowledge domains without the cost and time of fine-tuning the LLM. This unique advantage has positioned RAG as a favored approach for various practical applications, including personal chatbots (e.g., WikiChat [10], FinGPT [17] and ChatRTX [12]) and specialized domain experts like medical diagnostic assistants [18] and email/code completion [19]. Existing Attacks and Their Limitations. Many attacks on LLMs have been proposed, such as backdoor attacks [20–23], jailbreaking attacks [24–26], and prompt injection attacks [27? –29]. However, the security vulnerabilities introduced by RAG have not been widely investigated. Limitation on Retrieval Attacks. Existing work has not explored group-query attacks, such as those defined by politics, race, or religion. For example, the always-retrieval method [13] creates passages that can be retrieved by any query, which does not work for group-trigger conditional attacks. In contrast, fixed-retrieval methods [14, 30] generate adversarial passages for specific target queries, linking them to predefined query-answer pairs. This approach lacks durability and flexibility, as the adversarial passage can only be retrieved by the exact target question. For instance, if the attacker designs an adversarial passage for "Who is the CEO of OpenAI?", but the user asks "Who holds the position of CEO at OpenAI?", the attack will fail. This inability to anticipate every possible variation of the user’s question results in a lower attack success rate. In contrast, our BadRAG generates adversarial passages retrievable by queries sharing specific characteristics, such as group semantic triggers like Republic, Donald Trump. This allows attackers to customize attack conditions. Limitation on Generative Attacks. An effective RAG attack should consider the influence of retrieved adversarial passages on the LLM’s outputs. Both [13] and [30] did not consider the subsequent impact on LLM generation, focusing only on retrieving adversarial passages. Aligned LLMs, such as GPT-4, often resist these attacks. PoisonedRAG [14] attempted to influence the LLM’s generation, leading the LLM to output a target answer for a specific question, e.g., "Who is the CEO of OpenAI?" with "Tim Cook." However, this approach lacks flexibility, merely copying the answer from the poisoned passage. Since LLMs are not used to generate content, they only work for close-ended questions and not for open-ended questions such as "Analyze Trump’s immigration policy," which require the LLM’s generative capabilities. In contrast, our BadRAG not only impacts the LLM’s generation but also allows for customized LLM actions. These actions include steering the sentiment of the LLM’s output to produce biased responses and conducting Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks. 3 BadRAG Attacker’s Objective. Attacking RAG of LLMs can be approached from two aspects: retrieval attack and