the same inference speedup as the model using only expert pruning with r = 4 while getting a much higher accuracy over the LM- eval benchmark. This phenomenon also proves the efficiency of our dynamic expert skipping approach. For a more comprehensive evaluation, we perform dynamic skipping on task-specific models and ob- serve similar results. Experiment details are shown in the Appendix (Sec. A.4). 4.4 More Analysis Discussion about Inference Speed. In Fig. 1, we also observe a notable inference acceleration when pruning experts from r = 6 to r = 4, a phenomenon not attributable to decreased inter- GPU communication overhead. We think that this enhancement stems primarily from improved tem- poral and spatial locality. This includes reduced cache misses, optimized memory prefetching, and faster block loading. Readers may refer to papers related to memory-intensive LLM inference (such as (Alizadeh et al., 2023)) to find more explanation. More Ablations. We carry out efficient layer- wise expert pruning in this work. Readers may be curious about the effectiveness compared with a layer-by-layer progressive searching paradigm, where the pruning of subsequent layers is aware of the pruning result of previous layers. To this end, we compare these two pruning paradigms in Tab. 6, leveraging the Mixtral 8x7B model and calibration samples from the C4 dataset. Although the layer- by-layer progressive manner can get slightly better results with fewer experts pruned, when it comes to a high expert pruning rate (e.g., 50% pruning rate with r = 4), more performance drop is observed. We attribute this to the possible overfitting of the small calibration dataset. 5 Conclusion and Discussion In this paper, based on the structural characteris- tics of MoE LLMs and the shortcomings of current weight pruning schemes, we focus on expert-level model sparsification and, for the first time, provide post-training expert pruning together with dynamic (expert) skipping methods to enhance the deploy- ment efficiency of MoE LLMs. Our methods can significantly reduce memory usage and enhance inference speed while maintaining high model per- formance. Looking ahead, we aim to further refine our pruning/skipping techniques and incorporate them with weight pruning or parameter quantiza- tion strategies, achieving more effective deploying approaches for MoE LLMs. Limitations Our method can reduce memory usage and improve inference speed for more efficient deployment of MoE LLMs. Despite its advancements, there are still some limitations. Firstly, our method for ex- pert pruning is based on the enumeration of expert combinations. This is feasible for pruning currently popular MoE LLMs with 4 or 8 experts. However, with the number of experts in each MoE layer in- creasing (e.g., 32 experts in one MoE layer), it will be cumbersome to perform our pruning algorithm. Secondly, we conduct experiments on the open- sourced Mixtral 8x7B and Mixtral 8x7B Instruct models as they are by far the most popular MoE LLMs. With the development of MoE LLMs, we will carry out experiments on other MoE LLMs in the future to give a more comprehensive analysis of the generalizability and scalability