can help identify the utility of main headings (which are otherwise ambiguous), or headings that do not match the typical characteris- tics in other heading positions. By including both vectors, the model should be able to learn a better sense of heading utility by combining the two notions. 3.2 Heading independence Although contextual vectors can help inform a trained ranker about which headings are structural and topical, they cannot directly aﬀect which types of interactions are identiﬁed and how these interactions are scored because this occurs earlier in the pipeline of the neural model considered (matching phase). We hypothesize that heading utility can actually aﬀect which signals are important. For instance, a low-utility structural heading might be more tolerant to weak term similarities (i.e., ‘colonial’ or ‘ancient’ might be accept- able matches for ‘History’), or a high-utility topical heading might have stricter requirements for maintaining the order of terms. Thus, we propose a general approach to modify a neural ranking architecture to adjust matching based on heading utility: heading independence. Heading independence involves splitting the matching phase of a neural ranker into multiple segments, each responsible for processing a segment of the query. Here, we split the query by heading position: title, intermediate, and main headings (see Figure 3c). The processing of each heading position is independent of the others, so a diﬀerent set of parameters can be learned for each component. The results of the matching layers are then concatenated and Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 11 sent to the combination layer of the unmodiﬁed model (e.g., a dense layer) for the calculation of the ﬁnal relevance score. This approach makes intuitive sense because one would expect the title to interact diﬀerently in the document than a structural or topical heading. For instance, abbreviated versions of the topic are often used to improve readabil- ity. Furthermore, this approach enforces alignment of headings during com- bination (see Figure 4). When all query terms are simply concatenated, the alignment of each query position will change among queries due to diﬀerences in query length. Thus, the model will need to learn and accommodate multiple tendencies in a wider variety of positions of the query, rather in just certain areas. 3.3 Knowledge graph Although interaction-focused neural rankers often employ word embedding similarities, word embeddings do not always capture similarities within con- texts. This results in individual term being close to many topically-similar terms [14]. Within the context of CAR, we are only concerned with topics that are similar given a particular context (i.e., the question facet). Further- more, we know that the most salient contextual information comes from entity mentions. Since article titles also correspond to entities, and headings can be considered the context, we use the following approach employing knowledge graph embeddings. Before we can train knowledge graph embeddings, we must have a knowl- edge graph. Since the evaluation topics we use come from Wikipedia, we cannot use a freely-available knowledge graph based on all of Wikipedia data (e.g., Freebase