hence ground causal reasoning on commensense knowledge (e.g., Figure 2 and 3). Note that in some tasks LLMs are not even provided with specific in-context data supporting the causal reasoning (e.g., in Tu, Ma, and Zhang (2023), no context is provided to ChatGPT before authors submit queries), further indicating that LLMs are only performing knowledge retrieval, not causal reasoning in these tasks. We believe that this is a necessary component of causal reason- ing, and that causal reasoning in humans likely relies on ap- plied domain knowledge and accumulated experience. How- ever, such tasks still do not demonstrate that LLMs have ac- quired the abstraction and imagination skills that constitute the higher levels of our causal hierarchies (Zhang et al. 2023; Pearl and Mackenzie 2018) discussed in the Introduction. Contextual reasoning and graph-based tasks move towards more complex conceptions of causality In light of the problems mentioned above, different ap- proaches have emerged to evaluate LLMs in a way that incorporates higher levels of causal reasoning. Recall that the hierarchy from Zhang et al. (2023) described Type 2 as “Discovering new knowledge from data” and Type 3 as “Quantitatively estimating the consequences of actions”. Meanwhile, Pearl and Mackenzie (2018) defined Rung 2 as “doing”—formalizing the concept of interventions, tra- ditionally phrased in terms of do-calculus—and Rung 3 as “imagining”—reasoning about alternative or counterfactual scenarios, which may contradict what actually happened. In this context, we therefore begin to see that a true causal reasoning task should formalize the idea of interventional and/or counterfactual reasoning, calling for the LLM to ap- ply some level of abstraction or even imagination rather than simple retrieval of domain knowledge. Story-based contextual reasoning. Many tasks in this Figure 2: Examples from com2sense (taken from Singh et al. (2021) and Srivastava et al. (2022)). Figure 3: An example from intuitive physics (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023). group of datasets are about story-telling, such as Time- Travel(Liu et al. 2023), FinCausal(Mariko et al. 2020), fan- tasy reasoning(Srivastava et al. 2022), and minute mysteries qa (Srivastava et al. 2022). These tasks provide a more robust challenge for LLMs by increasing the underlying level of complexity, requiring the language model to evaluate a sequence of several events or statements, discard irrelevant or misleading information, and ultimately synthesize multiple factors to reach a reasonable conclusion. An important innovation across several of these tasks is the use of non-informative or even fictional elements to preclude the application of domain knowledge retrieval. Tasks such as minute mysteries qa (Srivastava et al. 2022) tell a long-form story that with high probability does not ex- ist in the LLM’s pretraining dataset, while fantasy reasoning (Srivastava et al. 2022) extend this even further by telling a fantasy story set in a different universe. One concern with these tasks is the entanglement of ‘tem- poral and spatial order” with causality in the sense that the temporal or spatial order implies the causal relationship. The fact that LLMs are performing well on this task may not be surprising: if