uses the vector similarity-based retrieval module, which usually lacks effective filtering of the retrieved contents from vast knowledge bases, providing excessive but maybe unnecessary information. Considering the inherent constraints of LLMs, such as the fixed context window (typically 2K-32K tokens) [1], [23] and the challenge of fully capturing long-range dependencies in complex documents, it is hard for LLMs in traditional RAG to capture the necessary information from the excessive retrieved contents. While scaling chunk granularity could alleviate these challenges, this approach significantly increases computational costs and response latency. Furthermore, indexing-based meth- ods fail to effectively prune irrelevant information during retrieval, leading to the target knowledge being overwhelmed. These limitations present practical challenges for deploying RAG in resource-constrained environments where LLMs with smaller input context windows are preferred. Existing tra- ditional RAG approaches have proposed methods such as recursive splits, sliding windows, and Small-to-Big [35], [38] to optimize context length while preserving semantic integrity. They also assess and filter retrieved information to extract key insights [16], [113], [115], [116], and fine-tune LLMs to enhance their capability to capture crucial information from a vast amount of retrieved data [118]. These approaches effectively reduce the volume of retrieved content, aiding the handling of LLMs’ limited context windows, but they still fall short of capturing long-distance dependencies. This shortcoming arises because vector similarity-based retrieval makes it challenging to establish sufficiently clear connections between different pieces of retrieved content, limiting LLMs’ understanding of long-distance dependencies. 4) Efficiency and scalability: Since large-scale knowledge sources often contain a significant amount of non-domain- specific information and domain-specific terms are usually sparsely distributed across diverse knowledge carriers, the retrieval module of RAG systems often needs to search through a vast amount of unstructured text to find relevant information, requiring considerable computational resources and time [24]. Although there are existing traditional RAG methods that propose preprocessing before employing retrieval methods to reduce costs [43], [121], [122], or using innovative parallelism solutions to extract and maintain key information in intermediate processes to optimize resource use [15], [123], [124], they inevitably need to retrieve information from a large volume of unstructured text. This makes resource consumption a persisting issue for traditional RAG, affecting its scalability. C. GraphRAG To address the limitations of traditional RAG, a novel paradigm known as Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation (GraphRAG) has been introduced. Leveraging structured knowl- edge, GraphRAG provides an efficient and accurate solution for organizing and retrieving information with structural databases, enhancing the performance and reliability of RAG systems. 1) Definition of GraphRAG: GraphRAG can be formally defined as a subclass of RAG framework that leverage graph structure to organize and retrieve knowledge. Unlike traditional RAG methods, which rely on vector databases for knowledge organization, GraphRAG employs structural databases where graphs are used to model dependencies among knowledge pieces. This approach enhances the accuracy and efficiency of information retrieval, enabling more effective augmented generation for LLMs. Specifically, GraphRAG systems can utilize graphs as either the carrier of knowledge or the indexing tools for efficient retrieval from chunked textual