December, May, June occur during the Winter? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: December is in the winter. So the final answer is: Yes # Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: How long did the vietnam war (1945-1946) last? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The War in Vietnam (1945-46) lasted around 6 months. Follow up: How long is the llama gestation period? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The gestation period for a llama is 11.5 months. Follow up: What is 2 times 11.5? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: 23, which is longer than 6. So the final answer is: No # Question: Would Richard Dawkins hypothetically refuse an offering of the Last rites? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What are the last Rites? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The Last rites, in Catholicism, are the last prayers and ministrations given to an individual of the faith, when possible, shortly before death. Follow up: What are Richard Dawkins religious beliefs? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Richard Dawkins is known as an outspoken atheist, well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. Follow up: Would an atheist participate in Catholics prayers? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: It is unlikely that an atheist would participate in Catholics prayers. So the final answer is: Yes Table 30: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on StrategyQA. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. The final answer should always be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. # {Knowledge} Question: Is it common to see frost during some college commencements? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What seasons can you expect to see frost? Intermediate answer: Frost is common during the winter. Follow up: When is college commencement? Intermediate answer: College commencement ceremonies often happen during the months of December, May, June. Follow up: Do any of the months December, May, June occur during the Winter? Intermediate answer: December is in the winter. So the final answer is: Yes # {Knowledge} Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: How long did the vietnam war (1945-1946) last? Intermediate answer: The War in Vietnam (1945-46) lasted around 6 months. Follow up: How long is the llama gestation period? Intermediate answer: The gestation period for a llama is 11.5 months. Follow up: What is 2 times 11.5? Intermediate answer: 23, which is longer than 6. So the final answer is: No # {Knowledge} Question: Would Richard Dawkins hypothetically refuse an offering of the Last rites? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What are the last Rites? Intermediate answer: The Last rites, in Catholicism, are the last prayers and ministrations given to an individual of the faith, when possible, shortly