insult the members of the group”. The literature for hate speech detection defined the task as detecting hate vs. non-hate from different types of content such as text, image and multimodal (Schmidt and Wiegand, 2017; Kiela et al., 2020; Gomez et al., 2020). Dataset For this task, we also used the OSACT 2020 dataset (Mubarak et al., 2020b), which con- sists of 10,000 tweets with annotated label hate- speech, not-hate-speech. A.7.3 Adult Content Detection Identifying this type of content is important for social media platforms to make a safe place for users. Especially this type of content poses a seri- ous threat to other vulnerable groups (e.g., younger age groups). The task typically involves detecting and identifying whether the textual content con- tains sensitive/adult content or account that share such content. 17Paper is under revision. Dataset We used the dataset discussed in (Mubarak et al., 2021a), which contains 10,000 tweets collected by first identifying Twitter ac- counts that post adult content. Tweets are manually annotated as adult and not-adult. A.7.4 Spam Detection Spam content in social media includes ads, ma- licious content, and any low-quality content (Ghanem et al., 2023). Spam detection is another important problem as such content may often annoy and mislead the users (Gao et al., 2012). Dataset We used the dataset discussed in (Mubarak et al., 2020a) for Arabic spam detec- tion which contains 28K tweets manually labeled as spam and not-spam. A.7.5 Subjectivity Identification A sentence is considered subjective when it is based on – or influenced by – personal feelings, tastes, or opinions. Otherwise, the sentence is considered objective (Antici et al., 2021). Given that the identi- fication of subjectivity is subjective itself, therefore, it poses challenges in the annotation process by the annotator. The complexity lies due to the different levels of expertise by the annotators, different in- terpretations and their conscious and unconscious bias towards the content they annotate. The content can be text (e.g., sentence, article), image or multi- modal content, consisting of opinionated, factual or non-factual content. The annotation typically has been done using two labels, objective (OBJ) and subjective (SUBJ). Dataset The dataset consists of sentences curated from news articles. The dataset has been developed based on the existing AraFacts dataset (Ali et al., 2021b) that contains claims verified by Arabic fact- checking websites, and each claim is associated with web pages propagating or negating the claim. The news articles are collected from different news media. News articles were automatically parsed, split into sentences and filtered poorly-formatted sentences using a rule-based approach. A portion of the dataset was released as part of Task 2 in the CLEF2023 CheckThat Lab (Barrón-Cedeño et al., 2023). A.7.6 Propaganda Detection Propaganda can be defined as a form of commu- nication that aims to influence the opinions or the actions of people towards a specific goal; this is achieved utilizing well-defined rhetorical and psy- chological devices (Dimitrov et al., 2021). In differ- ent communication channels, propaganda (persua- sion techniques) is conveyed through the use