methods, such as dense vector-based re- trieval. Since frame semantic retrieval implic- itly provides interpretable we choose a baseline that is similarly transparent. We first generate search terms by feeding the relevant question to RAKE (Rose et al., 2010), a tool for extracting search terms, which is known to be effective. We then perform a simple string match to extract all factoids that contain the keywords. The second baseline we use is not directly com- parable as it is not interpretable. This consists of using an LLM to generate relevant search terms and is included so we might compare frame semantic retrieval to a rough analogue of question decompo- sition, a standard mechanism used in RAG as de- scribed above. Both baselines can be boosted using several techniques. For example, we do not gener- ate chain of thoughts before generating the search terms using GPT-4, which is likely to improve the effectiveness of the resultant search terms. This is because the purpose of this work is not create a mechanism that outperforms existing methods, but to establish the feasibility of the frame semantic indexing and retrieval process which has the ad- vantage of being interpretable and being based on cognitive linguistic theory. 5 Frame Semantic Retrieval: Methods and Qualitative Analysis In this section we detail the methods used for frame semantic indexing and retrieval. Given that one of objectives is to maintain interpretability and to to potentially provide data-driven insights to the theory of frame semantics, we perform a qualitative analysis of the outputs of each of the stages. An empirical evaluation of the effectiveness of these methods is presented next, in Section 6. The mechanism of retrieving information based on frame semantics consists of three distinct stages: The first is a pre-processing step, which involves indexing all relevant factoids based on between two and four of the most prominent frames that they invoke. The second and third steps are per- formed when answering a question at inference time and involve identifying the single most im- portant frame associated with the question (the question frame), and frames associated with the question frame, which are likely to be associated with factoids relevant to answering the original question but separated by one or more logical steps. The most important parts of the prompts associated with each of these steps along with example outputs are presented in Table 2. The complete prompts, including prior versions we experimented with, are included in the supplementary data uploaded with this paper. In all cases, we prompt GPT-4 (Ope- nAI et al., 2024) using a temperature of 0 to ensure reproducible results. 5.1 Frame Identification There are two difficulties in identifying the frames associated with facts or questions. The first is the necessity to define a complete set of frames, and the second is the linking of these frames to the relevant fact or question. Our exploratory experi- ments of using FrameNet as a definitive source of all frames which we use to compare against facts and