First, the construction of a dedicated and balanced CEFR dataset for German which requires data augmentation. Second, the development and evaluation of various prompt engineering strategies. Third, we present a fine-tuning pipeline based on LLaMA- 3-8B-Instruct to assess the effect of supervised adaptation on classification performance. Fourth, we introduce a probing-based analysis in which a neural classifier is trained on the final-layer activations of the LLaMA-3 model to investigate how CEFR-relevant linguistic features are encoded in its internal representations. 3.1 Construction of a Balanced CEFR Dataset The creation of a comprehensive German CEFR classification dataset presented several challenges due to the limited public availability of CEFR-labeled texts and in particular, as existing datasets tend to be sparse and imbalanced. We addressed this by combining multiple existing corpora along with synthetic generated data to ensure a balanced representation across proficiency levels as required for a robust evaluation. As a first source, we used the already introduced Falko corpus as it contains high-quality texts for CEFR classification. We selected three subcorpora to ensure a diverse range of text types and proficiency levels: • EssayL2, consists of argumentative essays written by advanced foreign learners of German (CEFR levels between B2 to C2). Topics include feminism, financial policy, and crime. All texts were written under controlled conditions within a 90-minute time limit. • SummaryL1, contains academic summaries from native speakers, which we used as reference samples for the C2 level. • SummaryL2, includes similar summaries written by learners of German as a second language. 3 Together, these subcorpora offer valuable examples of high-proficient language use and were instrumental in anchoring the upper end of the CEFR scale in our dataset. The EssayL2 subcorpus contained texts from B2 to C2, each annotated with metadata including the author’s C-test score, an integer ranging from 0 to 100 measuring German proficiency. We used the Falko authors’ mapping scheme to assign CEFR levels to each text based on these scores (see Table 2). Table 2: Mapping of FALKO C-Test Scores to CEFR Levels Score Range CEFR Level 60–79 B2 80–89 C1 90–100 C2 We also added the MERLIN corpus which provides a diverse set of texts across all CEFR levels, with a strong focus on A2, B1, and B2 levels. The corpus includes essays and summaries written by learners of German as a second language and is annotated with CEFR levels by language experts. To address the remaining gap at the lower end of the proficiency spectrum, in particular the lack of A1-level texts, we employed a synthetic data generation approach using a large language model. We chose the Claude 3.5 Sonnet model (Anthropic, 2024), an advanced LLM developed by Anthropic. While we used LLaMA-3-8B-Instruct as our classification model, we opted for Claude for data generation for several reasons. First, Claude has demonstrated superior ability in following complex instructions and maintaining consistent quality (Huang et al., 2024). Additionally it shows good performance on German language understanding (Park et al., 2024). Second, as a larger model with a broader