structured documents, denoted as 𝐷= {𝑑1,𝑑2, ..., 𝑑𝑛}, we first leverage LLMs to extract entities and relations from the unstructured texts and construct a KG accordingly. The prompt design details for this construction are illustrated in Fig. 1. Subsequently, we refined the embedding representations to improve their capacity for semantic comprehension and entity correspondence. The training dataset was constructed in the format {"query": str, "pos": List[str], "neg": List[str]}, where "pos" refers to the relevant answers, and "neg" in- cludes irrelevant samples randomly drawn from other doc- uments. This corpus was employed to adapt the embedding model to the target domain through fine-tuning. The opti- mized loss function is as follows: 𝑖= −log exp (sim(𝑞𝑖, 𝑝𝑖)∕𝑚) ∑ 𝑗exp (sim(𝑞𝑖, 𝑑𝑗)∕𝑚) (1) where, 𝑞𝑖denotes the embedding vector of the 𝑖-th query, 𝑝𝑖denotes positive docment of the 𝑖-th query, 𝑑𝑗denotes all passages, including both positive and negative examples. 𝑚 denotes the temperature scaling parameter. sim() denotes the similarity calculation function. Q. Wei et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 3 of 13 Leveraging social media news Query Potential Entity One-hop Relations KG Multi-hop Relations KG Importance- based Relations KG Query & Entities Query & Triples Query & Relations Output Rerank (b) Reward Model (c) Fusion KG … S2 S1 S3 Subgraph Construction Subgraph Fusion Subgraph utilization Top Chunks Entities Extract Entities Vector Database Entity Mapping Real Entity Chunks … … … (a) Embedding Model … … … … … … CrossEntropy … (a) Embedding Model Domain dataset Positive Embedding model Query Negative Q Q Q … Query … KG … … Query-based Attention Query-based Attention Query-based Attention … … … Linear S2 S1 S3 (b) Reward Model (c) Fusion KG Q Highest Score KG Query KG Calculating Similarity Query KG Calculating Similarity … Score Query Figure 2: Framework of the proposed QMKGF. Given a text, identify all of these types of entities and all of the relationships between these entities. Please use {language} as the output language. Text: {text} -Steps- 1. Identify all entities. For each identified entity, extract the following information: entity_name: The name of the entity, in the same language as the input text. 2. From the entities identified in step 1, find all pairs of (source_entity, target_entity) that are clearly related.For each pair of related entities, extract the following information: source_entity: The name of the source entity. target_entity: The name of the target entity. relationship_description: An explanation of why the source entity is thought to have a relationship with the target entity. Prompt Figure 3: Prompt templates for entities and relations extrac- tion. Subsequently, we utilize the fine-tuned embedding model to vectorize the entities in the KG, resulting in entities vector database 𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵to support entity matching in the subsequent retrieval process. Through the above steps, we ultimately obtain a complete KG G=(V,E) and entities vector database 𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵. Given a query 𝑞, the entity mapping module first employs predefined prompt templates to extract potential entities 𝑒𝑝 from the original query. Then, we calculate the similarity between 𝑒𝑝and each entity 𝑒𝑖∈𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵to identify