the 1st-stage finetuning, which shows that the train- ing strategies need to be carefully devised to ensure high performance. A surprising phenomenon is that when we randomly initialize the word embedding (‘w/o embedding initialization’ in Table 7), we do not observe a significant performance decrease. This result suggests that it is the way the to- kenizer discretizes the image, rather than the word embedding preserved in the tokenizer, critical to 9 Work in Progress the final performance. The reason why random initialization causes a certain degree of performance decrease is likely due to the relatively small size of the training data. We speculate that when the amount of training data reaches a certain level, the performance gap will disappear. 6 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this paper, we propose TEAL, an approach to training a fully token-in-token-out MM-LLM by treating the input from any modality as a token sequence and learning a joint embedding space for all modalities. TEAL empowers the frozen textual LLM with the ability to perform understanding and generation involving non-textual modalities. Extensive experiments show that, compared to the baseline models which integrate non-textual encoders, our approach achieves superior performance on non-textual understanding tasks, and paves a simple way for non-textual generation. There are two main promising directions for the future work. Firstly, we are interested in construct- ing an MM-LLM model that can handle more tasks and more modalities. The token-in-token-out architecture has the potential to handle all tasks in AI within one model. Secondly, we want to de- vise a general tokenizer, which can discretize the input from textual and non-textual modalities in a unified way. With such a general tokenizer, aligning the samples from different modalities is simpler and more straightforward. 10 Work in Progress REFERENCES Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. Flamingo: a visual language model for few-shot learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:23716– 23736, 2022. Lo¨ıc Barrault, Yu-An Chung, Mariano Cora Meglioli, David Dale, Ning Dong, Paul-Ambroise Duquenne, Hady Elsahar, Hongyu Gong, Kevin Heffernan, John Hoffman, et al. Seamlessm4t- massively multilingual & multimodal machine translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11596, 2023. Zal´an Borsos, Rapha¨el Marinier, Damien Vincent, Eugene Kharitonov, Olivier Pietquin, Matt Shar- ifi, Dominik Roblek, Olivier Teboul, David Grangier, Marco Tagliasacchi, et al. Audiolm: a language modeling approach to audio generation. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2023. Yihan Cao, Siyu Li, Yixin Liu, Zhiling Yan, Yutong Dai, Philip S Yu, and Lichao Sun. A com- prehensive survey of ai-generated content (aigc): A history of generative ai from gan to chatgpt. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04226, 2023. Xuankai Chang, Brian Yan, Kwanghee Choi, Jeeweon Jung, Yichen Lu, Soumi Maiti, Roshan Sharma, Jiatong Shi, Jinchuan Tian, Shinji Watanabe, et al. Exploring speech recognition, translation, and understanding with discrete speech units: A comparative study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.15800, 2023. Feilong Chen, Minglun Han, Haozhi Zhao, Qingyang Zhang, Jing Shi, Shuang Xu, and Bo Xu. X-llm: Bootstrapping advanced large