all other models on the ARCD dataset, achieving a Recall@10 of over 90%. This study has paid special attention to the embedding process in multilingual RAG (in this case, Arabic) and provides valuable insights into the process of selecting the information retrieval component for multilingual RAG systems, particularly for languages that share the same script as Persian. In this paper, the authors did not use a vector database but opted for the direct use of cosine similarity to match query embeddings against document embeddings. While this approach may slow down the matching process in a real-world environment, it should have little impact on the research findings presented in the paper. Although this article does not, by any means, represent a complete RAG system, it offers a clear pathway for understanding semantic embedding models in designing a multilingual RAG system, and particularly RAG in the Persian language, which shares the same script as Arabic. As the last work reviewed in the Arabic language, we can refer to the research conducted by Ali Mahbub et al. [15]. The paper, focusing on semantic search in Arabic, strives to create a simple yet robust benchmark for semantic search in the Arabic language. The importance of semantic search is emphasized in this article, noting that semantic search interprets the meanings and relationships between words with the aim of mimicking human understanding. This enhances user experience in various applications, including web search engines, personalized content recommendation systems, and also RAG. The article further discusses that by combining a sophisticated retrieval mechanism with a powerful generation model, RAG systems can produce accurate and contextually relevant responses, significantly improving the limitations of standalone language models in terms of accuracy and human- like text generation. Integrating semantic search into RAG systems is crucial, especially for processing complex queries or those requiring deep contextual understanding, making it a cornerstone for enhancing retrieval accuracy and the quality of generated content. However, similar to other reviewed works and like most research efforts in NLP tasks, Arabic semantic search and RAG lag behind other languages due to challenges inherent in the Arabic language, including complex morphology, the diversity of its dialects, and the scarcity of datasets [16, 17]. Ultimately, the goal of this paper was to evaluate the effectiveness of semantic search in Arabic language processing alongside its impact on the performance of RAG systems specifically designed for Arabic question- answering use cases. Other research has also been conducted on the effects of different components of RAG systems. For instance, the article by Yuanjie Liu et al. [18] introduces a comprehensive Chinese benchmark for RAG in large language models . This paper addresses the challenge of evaluating RAG systems by highlighting that most benchmarks primarily focus on question-answering applications and tend to overlook other potential scenarios where RAG could be beneficial. To overcome this limitation, they develop a large-scale and more comprehensive benchmark that evaluates all components of RAG systems across various RAG application scenarios. Specifically, the paper describes the interactions between users