a target word. Insertion and deletion work similarly by providing target word and position within sentence, whereas we pro- vide target word and another input word for replacement task. Reordering and counting are extended similarly. For reordering, as with character-level reordering, we compute accuracy from whether the ﬁnal answer is correct, without computing precision and recall for each reordered word. 3.2. Results Table 7 summarizes the results of our experiments with pre- cision, recall, and F-score for each task at character level. For token level, we only report F-score for brevity in Ta- ble 2. It is clearly shown that, for most tasks, all target LLMs display severely degraded performance at character level when compared to token level. While discrepancies exist among respective models’ performances, none rises to the level of demonstrating a clear superiority over other models. It is also out of scope of this paper to determine which LLM is better, as our focus is on assessing LLMs in terms of understanding character composition in general. Humans, not surprisingly, demonstrated near-perfect per- formance throughout all tasks. There was hardly any mis- take in precision, while defects in recall tended to occur mostly around characters that are placed in the middle of the word, rather than beginning or the end, suggesting at- tention to saliency in human perception of character com- position. Considering that humans have been surpassed by LLMs in many NLP tasks that are supposedly more com- plex, our results suggest an unsettling dichotomy between LLM’s capability at token-level and character-level tasks. Table 8 shows some of the failure cases for each model at character level. It is notable that the tasks for which LLMs struggled the most frequently involved specifying positions of the characters, mostly using numbers, as in in- sertion or deletion tasks. It should be noted that a similar performance decline was observed even at token level, as illustrated in Table 2. Table 4 shows example failure cases at token level. This suggests that some of the limitations in understanding character composition may not simply be attributed to the fact that LLMs are trained at token level, but to a more fundamental drawback in their training ap- proach. Notably, all LLMs performed far better on charac- ter reordering task than on other tasks, closely trailing the performance of humans. We conjecture that this is due to abundant resources available online about anagram, which are likely to have been used in pre-training of the models. Even when the newly formed words are non-existing words, many of them are likely to have appeared in the training corpora as possible anagrams of an existing word . It is therefore only natural that all models struggled with charac- ter reordering as the word gets longer, or with an unknown word, as shown in Table 4. A clearer contrast between LLMs’ performances on token level and character level tasks is made on the tasks that do not involve numerical elements, such as replacement. As illustrated in an example in