in generations. Evaluation using LLMs may be more reliable. • ITER-RETGEN is superior to or competi- tive with state-of-the-art retrieval-augmented methods, while being simpler and causing fewer overheads of retrieval and generation. With generation-augmented retrieval adapta- tion, we can further improve performance and also reduce overheads (by reducing itera- tions). • It is desirable for an LLM to leverage both parametric knowledge and non-parametric knowledge effectively. ITER-RETGEN con- sistently outperforms Self-Ask on question answering tasks, regardless of whether in- context non-parametric knowledge mentions the answers or not. 2 Related Work In recent months, there has been a surge in LLM- powered applications, such as ChatGPT, Bing Chat, and CoPilot (Chen et al., 2021). While showing an unprecedented level of performance, LLMs are sub- ject to the following limitations: (1) Due to a high demand for compute and data, it remains an open research question to continually update LLMs both efficiently and effectively (Scialom et al., 2022); (2) LLMs also tend to hallucinate (OpenAI, 2023), i.e., generating plausible but non-factual texts. To alleviate these issues, there is a growing trend of augmenting LLMs with tools (Mialon et al., 2023; Gou et al., 2023), e.g., a code interpreter (Gao et al., 2022b; Shao et al., 2023) or a search engine (Nakano et al., 2021), in an attempt to offload sub- tasks to more qualified experts, or to enrich the input context for LLMs by providing more relevant information. Retrieval augmentation is a mainstream direc- tion to connect LLMs to the external world. Previ- ous retrieval-augmented LMs (Izacard and Grave, 2021; Shao and Huang, 2022) typically receive re- trieved knowledge in a passive way: knowledge is retrieved based on the task inputs without LMs’ intervention. As it is difficult for a retriever to cap- ture relevance, especially in the zero-shot setting, recent work shows a shift towards having LLMs actively involved in retrieval to improve relevance modeling, e.g., to provide a specific context for retrieval with model generations (e.g., generated search queries (Nakano et al., 2021; Press et al., 2022; Yao et al., 2022), partial generation (Trivedi et al., 2022a), or forward-looking sentences (Jiang et al., 2023)). Khattab et al. (2022) proposed a DSP programming framework that supports vari- ous retrieval-augmented methods. Recent work interleaves retrieval with generation when completing a single output. Such a structured workflow may reduce the flexibility in generation (Yao et al., 2022). ITER-RETGEN avoids interrupt- ing generation with retrieval, but iterates retrieval and generation, i.e., to leverage the complete gen- eration from the previous iteration to retrieve more Question: Retrieval: Retrieval-Augmented Generation: What is the height of the player who won the 2015 AFL Rising Star award? Title: 2015 AFL Rising Star Context: The NAB AFL Rising Star award is given annually to a stand out young player in the Australian Football League. The award was won by Jesse Hogan of Melbourne The 2015 AFL Rising Star award was won by Jesse Hogan of Melbourne. Jesse Hogan is a professional Australian rules footballer. He is 198 cm tall.