in generating captions for provided images. {{image-caption-pairs}} I have provided you {num} image(s) and their corresponding caption(s) as example(s) and one last image without a caption. Generate the caption for the last remaining image based on your understanding of the last image and provided image-caption examples. Only respond with the caption; do not say any other words or explain. Figure 5: Few-shot prompting for caption generation with GPT-4o. Appendix B Proprietary Models Cost We used OpenAI and Vertex APIs for generating captions with GPT-4o and Gemini-Pro models, re- spectively. Table 9 illustrates the API pricing infor- mation for both models. Overall, for the evaluation of the MSCOCO test set which includes 5k image- text pairs, our average cost estimates per run are approximately 45 USD for the GPT-4o model and Model Input Output Text Image Text GPT-4o $0.005 $0.015 $0.005 Gemini-Pro $0.000125 $0.0025∗ $0.000375 Table 9: Model API pricing per 1,000 tokens is listed in USD. (∗) The cost for a Gemini API call with image input is presented per image. 35 USD for the Gemini-Pro model. Image caption- ing experiments in this paper cost about 560 USD in total (seven runs for each model). Appendix C Generation Visualization This section shows a sample merged image for few- shot caption generation with LLaVA. (a) Random (b) CLIP-SF Figure 6: A sample image merging for LLaVA prompts. Few-shot images are vertically merged into the query- image for (a) random and (b) CLIP-SF retrievers with k = 1 examples. Appendix D Reported Metrics In our evaluations, we report commonly used metrics for both tasks. For caption generation, we use BLEU (1-4) (Papineni et al., 2002) and ROUGE (Lin, 2004), which measure the preci- sion and recall of n-grams in the generated cap- tions compared to ground-truth captions. We also employ CIDEr (Vedantam et al., 2015), which as- sesses cosine similarity between n-gram vectors from the generated and ground-truth captions, and SPICE (Anderson et al., 2016), which compares the Image Query Top retrieved image-caption pair (k = 1) Zero-shot CLIP-SF BLIP-FF Random Prompt - Multicolor fine sandy blazer red. Red petite refined one button blazer. Dp curve black collared shirt dress. LLaVA Effortless style in a vibrant red blazer. Red blazer with a white collar. Red blazer with a high neckline. Red blazer with black collar. Table 10: Sample caption generation with LLaVA model on the Fashion200k dataset in zero-shot and one-shot settings. The “Prompt” row shows the zero-shot image query as well as retrieved image-caption pairs from CLIP-SF, BLIP-FF and random selection that are included in the prompt as in-context examples. Caption Query Top retrieved image-caption pair (k = 1) Zero-shot CLIP-SF BLIP-FF Random Prompt - Black asymmetric overlay dress. Black sheer panel dress. Black asymmetric panel dress. Blue joanne cropped tailored trousers. LaVIT Table 11: Sample image generation with LaVIT on the Fashion200k dataset in zero-shot and one-shot settings. The “Prompt” row shows the zero-shot caption query as well as retrieved image-caption pairs from CLIP-SF, BLIP-FF and random selection that are