36.68 LaVIT Retrieved 25.17 36.34 Table 8: Comparison of FID measured in two modes: (a) generated images vs. retrieved images and (b) generated images vs. ground-truth. The images are generated by LaVIT using one-shot examples retrieved by CLIP-SF and BLIP-FF retrievers. confidence interval of one another. We believe this difference is related to the inherent uncertainty of the metric when applied to small dataset sizes. 5.4 Datasets Comparison As shown in Tables 4 and 6, smaller models per- form poorly on the Fashion200k dataset in both tasks under zero-shot settings, indicating their lim- ited implicit knowledge of the fashion domain. However, their strong reliance on in-context exam- ples and significant improvement under few-shot RAG settings demonstrate UniRAG’s effectiveness in bridging this knowledge gap. In contrast, for the MSCOCO dataset (Tables 3 and 5), where smaller models have more inherent knowledge of common entities, the zero-shot ef- fectiveness is greater and the impact of few-shot RAG examples is less pronounced. While few- shot RAG examples provide greater benefits for the Fashion200k dataset, this does not imply that the model merely replicates retrieved images in the absence of pre-trained knowledge. As shown in Table 8, the Fashion200k dataset exhibits a sig- nificantly higher FID when comparing generated images to the top-one retrieved image, indicating that the model does not simply copy but instead generates distinct outputs. 6 Conclusion We introduced UniRAG as a model agnos- tic retrieval augmentation technique for Vision- Language (VL) tasks and evaluated it on image- to-text and text-to-image tasks. We utilized the LLaVA, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-4o models to gener- ate captions for input images in zero-shot and few- shot (with RAG) settings. Similarly, we employed the LaVIT and Emu2-Gen models to generate im- ages from input captions. In the RAG few-shot setting, we leveraged UniIR’s CLIP-SF and BLIP- FF models to retrieve relevant image-text pairs and included them as in-context examples. To further showcase the effectiveness of RAG few-shot ex- amples, we also compared them against randomly selected few-shot examples. Our experimental results on the MSCOCO dataset from M-BEIR indicated that all models, regardless of their zero-shot baseline effectiveness, improved after being exposed to in-context exam- ples. However, the best results were achieved only when relevant retrieved examples were included in the prompts, rather than random text-image pairs. In fact, for the LLaVA, GPT-4o, and Emu2-Gen models, adding five random examples decreased generation quality below their zero-shot baselines. In contrast, in the RAG few-shot setting, increas- ing the number of examples from one to five either improved generation quality (for Gemini-Pro and GPT-4o) or had no effect (for LaVIT and Emu2- Gen). For LLaVA, while adding more RAG in- context examples reduced its effectiveness, it still performed significantly better than both the zero- shot and random few-shot prompts. Our experi- ments on five LVLMs confirmed that UniRAG with UniIR retrievers is a model-agnostic effective way to improve the generation quality of pre-trained LVLMs by retrieving relevant few-shot examples at inference time. To assess UniRAG’s effectiveness with uncom- mon