framework to generate relevant doc- uments that simultaneously exploits parametric and non- parametric knowledge. In each iteration, ITRG consists of two important steps: generation augmented retrieval (GAR) and retrieval augmented generation (RAG). In the GAR step, we propose a simple and effective method to expand queries by concatenating pseudo-documents generated from large language models and original questions. And expanded queries improve the accuracy of retrieving relevant docu- ments. In the RAG step, we use large language models to comprehensively understand retrieved documents to generate new documents for answering questions. We repeat these steps until we reach the maximum allowed number of itera- tions. Through multiple retrieval generation collaborations, our method aids in discovering the appropriate reasoning path and providing correct answers to questions. We evaluate the efficacy of our method on 4 question answering datasets, including Natural Questions, TriviaQA, 2WikiMultiHopQA, and HotpotQA. Experimental results show that our method performs better than previous baselines on all datasets. In summary, our main contributions can be summarized as follows: (1) We propose ITRG, an iterative retrieval-generation synergy framework using both paramet- ric and non-parametric knowledge. (2) We propose a simple and effective generation-augmented retrieval strategy and two retrieval-augmented generation strategies. (3) Empiri- cal results show that ITRG outperforms previous retrieval- augmented methods. arXiv:2310.05149v1 [cs.CL] 8 Oct 2023 2. ITERATIVE RETRIEVAL-GENERATION SYNERGY In this section, we first introduce the overall framework, and then introduce the retrieval-generation collaboration frame- work in detail, including generation augmented retrieval and retrieval augmented generation. 2.1. Overview We show the framework of ITRG in Figure 2. Given a user question q and a document corpus D = {di}|D| i=1 (i.e, di is a Wikipedia paragraph.), ITRG repeats generation augmented retrieval (GAR) and retrieval augmented generation (RAG) for T iterations. In the GAR process of iteration t, we con- catenate the output yt−1 of the last iteration and question q to form a new query, and then use a dense retriever to retrieve top-k paragraphs. In the first iteration, we only use the ques- tion as the query. In the RAG process of iteration t, based on the question q and the retrieved top-k paragraphs, we exploit large language models to generate new paragraphs to answer questions. Specifically, we propose two methods to generate new paragraphs, which will be introduced in detail in §2.3. 2.2. Generation Augmented Retrieval Knowledge-intensive tasks (e.g., open-domain question an- swering) often require access to additional documents. A common approach is to directly employ the question as the query, and then equip a sparse or dense retriever to retrieve relevant documents. In practice, we find that in some cases using the question directly as the query fails to retrieve rel- evant documents because there may exist semantic gaps be- tween them. To alleviate this problem, we propose a simple query expansion method. At the first iteration (t = 1), we use the original question q as the query. At iteration t (t > 1), we concatenate the original question q and the document gener- ated yt−1 in