question, sub- sequently deciding whether to generate the next question or finalize the answer. The primary dis- tinction between ReAct and Self-Ask in our imple- mentation lies in the positioning of the retrieved paragraphs. ITER-RETGEN (Shao et al., 2023) iteratively ex- ecute the following steps for several turns:(i) Ini- tiate retrieval using the original question and re- sponse generated by the LLM, returning relevant paragraphs, and (ii) Answer the original question with the current turn retrieval paragraphs. Finally, take the last round’s response as an answer. IRCoT (Trivedi et al., 2023) iteratively execute the following steps: (i) Initiate retrieval using the CoT sentence generated by the LLM, returning relevant paragraphs, and (ii) Generate a new CoT sentence using historical information until a special trigger word is produced or the maximum number of turns is reached. Finally, use the historical retrieval para- graphs to answer the original question. 4.4 Implementation Details We also employed Contriver, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and GPT-4-Turbo for our experiments. We adopted a greedy decoding strategy to ensure the stability of the output. We set the maximum length to 4096 and added as much evidence from the pool without exceeding this limit. We randomly sampled sev- eral data from each dataset’s training set, manually annotated them for few-shot demonstrations, and adopted a 3-shot setting for all baselines and ours. In the main experiment, the depth of TOR is set to 3, with the number of nodes in each layer be- ing 5, 3, 3. We adopted the evidence-based fusion method, missing paragraph completion expansion strategy, and two kinds of pruning strategies. CoR: To compare the differences between the tree and chain structures, we designed an experiment using the same prompt as TOR but providing only a single reasoning path. The model chooses an action in each iteration and generates new queries based on all retrieved paragraphs. See Table 13 for details. 4.5 Main Result As shown by Table 1 and Table 2, our method TOR achieves nearly optimal performance in both re- trieval metrics and generation metrics across three datasets under two different base models. In the experiments with GPT-4-Turbo as the base model 6 for the three datasets, the retrieval metrics outper- form the best-performing baseline method ITER- RETGEN by 13.3%, 12.0%, and 1.5%, respectively. Meanwhile, the F1 values for response generation surpass the highest values among the various base- line methods, with improvements of 9.2%, 10.3%, and 0.3%, respectively. We consider three reasons for achieving these re- sults: 1) TOR allows the model to explore multiple reasoning paths, effectively mitigating the cascad- ing errors caused by single reasoning path mis- takes. IRCoT, ITER-RETGEN, and CoR (intro- duced in Section 4.4) are all based on chain-of- thought reasoning, and their final response quality is constrained by the accuracy of retrieval and rea- soning at each step along the path. In contrast, TOR employs a tree structure to expand into different paths, sharing the risk of retrieval and reasoning failures. 2) The TOR structure can effectively re- duce the interference