doing so, LLMs can look up relevance information from external knowledge bases, ensuring a more reliable and precise content generation. Historically, retrieval-augmented language models [9–11, 20] employed single-time retrieval, extracting knowledge once based on an initial query. This method, while effective for tasks with straightforward informational needs, falls short when faced with complex tasks demanding multi-step reasoning. Recognizing this limitation, recent researches have shifted towards a multi-time retrieval framework [1, 15, 21, 26, 34]. This method doesn’t confine knowledge retrieval to one instance but revisits it iteratively during the generation process, by decomposing the primary question into sub-questions [16], or leveraging partially generated content [25, 39] and forward-looking sentences [12] as dynamic search queries. Although previous methods have made strides in improving the quality of generated answers, they strictly adhere to predefined reasoning steps over all questions. Such inflexible approaches lack the ability to diagnose specific errors in their responses and conse- quently don’t possess mechanisms to enhance their performance. We argue that this limitation might stem from the model’s lack of awareness regarding its own reasoning processes. When hu- mans confront complex issues, they often reflect on their thought patterns, gradually adjusting and optimizing their strategies. This ability comes from our innate metacognition, which enables intro- spection, self-assessment, and self-regulation. Inspired by it, we aim to integrate metacognitive ability into LLMs to enhance retrieval- augmented generation (RAG). By adopting this approach, the model is able to identify its own inaccuracies and dynamically adjust their reasoning strategies, leading to more precise answer generation. Derived from the field of cognitive psychology [19, 28], metacog- nition concerns an individual’s capacity to self-reflect and critically arXiv:2402.11626v1 [cs.CL] 18 Feb 2024 WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, & Zhicheng Dou (a) Human Metacognition Evaluating Planning Input Response Metacognitive Regulation Knowledge Metacognitive knowledge Fundamental information What we know Static understanding Self-awareness about information Why/How we know Dynamic evaluating and planning Planning Monitoring Evaluating Question Answer External knowledge Metacognitive knowledge Metacognitive Regulation activate (b) Retrieval-augmented LLMs Metacognition Declarative knowledge Procedural knowledge Figure 1: The correspondence between the metacognitive processes in humans and retrieval-augmented LLMs evaluate their cognitive processes [36]. As shown in the Figure 1(a), it can be classified into two integral components: metacognitive knowledge and metacognitive regulation. The former refers to an individual’s self-awareness of their cognitive strengths, limitations, and mechanisms. On the other hand, metacognitive regulation [4] involves the active management and control of one’s cognitive pro- cesses. Empowered by metacognitive capabilities, the human brain possesses the capacity to discern the underlying rationale behind responses and acquire the means for self-improvement. Drawing inspiration from human metacognitive processes, we in- troduce the Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Generation frame- work (MetaRAG). As illustrated in Figure 1(b), MetaRAG features a “cognition-metacognition” collaborative framework. The cognition component is responsible for deriving answers from the provided question and references, while the metacognitive component, act- ing as a critic model, delves deep into potential mistakes during reasoning. Upon conducting an analysis of model