linearly related to |Istatic| and |Idynamic| with the coefficient β. We average the tokens within each cluster to represent them with a single token ˜ X(t) v (c) for c = 1, . . . , Cs in the static clusters, and similarly for the dynamic clusters ˜ X(t) v (d) for d = 1, . . . , Cd. After these merging operations, we obtain a reduced set of visual tokens ˜ Xv with significantly less redundancy. The merged visual tokens for the entire video are then collected and concatenated to form the final token sequence to be input to the LLM: ˜ Xv = B [ b=1  ˜ X(b) v  , (6) where ˜ X(b) v contains the merged tokens from segment Tb. 3.3 LLM-GUIDED TOKEN SELECTION We further reduce the visual tokens by leveraging the LLM’s internal attentions to select the most relevant tokens with respect to the given question. Consider the LLM with L layers. During the pre-filling stage, we target the M-th layer, where 1 ≤M ≤L, to compute cross-attention weights between the question tokens and the merged visual tokens to obtain a measure of relevance. At the M-th layer, we calculate the attention scores A(M) ∈R(Nq+N′ v)×(Nq+N′ v) according to Eq. (1). To obtain the cross-attention scores between question and visual tokens, we extract a sub- matrix A(M) qv ∈RNq×N ′ v as follows: A(M) qv = A(M)[N ′ v :, : N ′ v], (7) where A(M)[N ′ v :, : N ′ v] selects the attention scores from the question tokens to the visual tokens. Next, we compute the maximum attention values av ∈RN ′ v for each visual token by applying max pooling over all question tokens. This approach captures the most informative tokens, as not all question tokens are equally important: 6 av = Nq max i=1 A(M) qv (i, :). We then sort the attention scores in descending order and select the top α% of visual tokens. The set of indices for the selected tokens is represented by S and is defined as: S = {j ∈{1, . . . , N ′ v} | Rank (av(j)) ≤⌈αN ′ v⌉} , (8) where Rank (av(j)) indicates the rank of av(j) within the sorted attention scores, and ⌈·⌉denotes the ceiling function. By focusing on the top α% tokens, we align the model’s attention with the most question-relevant visual information. To finalize the pre-filling stage, we combine the selected visual tokens with the question tokens, enabling processing in the remaining (L −M) layers of the LLM. The KV vectors derived from the retained visual tokens and question tokens, calculated in the last (L −M) layers, are stored in the KV cache for the decoding process. 3.3.1 COMPRESSED KEY-VALUE CACHES To reduce memory and computational costs during the decoding stage, we compress the KV caches stored from the previous M layers by retaining only the selected visual tokens. For each layer l (1 ≤l ≤M), the original key and value