quality of the subsequent steps due to potentially significant information loss. Fourth, user queries are typically short, ambiguous, may contain vocabulary mismatches, or are complex enough to require multiple documents to address, making it gener- ally difficult to precisely capture the user’s intents and subsequently identify the most appropriate documents to retrieve [4]. Finally, there is no guarantee that the relevant information is localized in the knowledge base, but rather spread across multiple documents. As a result, domain expert-level usage of the knowledge base is made dramatically more challenging with automated information retrieval systems. Such high level reasoning across the knowledge base is a yet unsolved problem and constitutes the basis for recent LLM-based retrieval agent frameworks research. In this work, we are interested in cases where user queries re- quire the information search to be specific to users interests or profile, are ambiguous, and require high level reasoning across documents (for example: “What challenges are associated with ap- plying machine learning for marketing?"), making recall, specificity, and depth our metrics of interest. To improve the search results performance across those metrics, query augmentation has been a widely used technique in both traditional Information Retrieval (IR) use cases such as e-commerce search [5], as well as in the more recent RAG frameworks leveraging LLMs [6]. Query augmenta- tion consists in explicitly rewriting or extending the original user query into one or more tailored queries that better match search results, alleviating issues related to query underspecification. This adjustment adds a module to the RAG framework and transforms it into the more sophisticated rewrite-then-retrieve-then-read work- flow. Leveraging their vast underlying parametric world knowledge, LLMs constitute a fitting choice to understand and enhance users queries, subsequently boosting the relevance of the retrieve step [6–12]. Our approach introduces a new data-centric RAG work- flow, prepare-then-rewrite-then-retrieve-then-read (PR3), where each document is processed by LLMs to create both custom metadata tailored to users characteristics and QA pairs to unlock new knowl- edge base reasoning capabilities through query augmentation. Our data preparation and retrieval pipeline mitigates the information loss inherent to large document chunking and embedding, as only QA are being encoded instead of documents chunks, while acting as a noise filtering approach for both noisy and irrelevant docu- ments for the task at hand. By introducing metadata-based clusters of QAs and Meta Knowledge Summary, our framework condition- ally augment the initial user query into multiple dedicated queries, therefore increasing the specificity, breadth, and depth of the knowl- edge base search (see Figure 1). The proposed out-of-the-shelve methodology is easily applicable to new datasets, does not rely on manual data labelling or model fine-tuning, and constitutes a step towards autonomous, agent-based documents database reasoning with LLMs, for which the literature remains limited to date [4]. 2 RELATED WORK Our work integrates concepts from methodologies that generate QA from document collections for downstream fine-tuning of either Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, LLMs