al., 2024), we propose an interpretable attack against RAG retrieval, called AdvRAGgen. The idea behind this attack is to use a general-purpose causal language model that takes in a query and an adversarial document and generates a paraphrase of the adversarial document such that it is retrieved. The generator is trained via Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) using three feedback signals: 1. The semantic similarity between the original adversarial document and its generated paraphrase, measured by a semantic embedding model. This ensures the paraphrase maintains the intended content, satisfying the generation condition. 6 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation 2. The similarity between the query and the paraphrase in the target retriever’s embedding space. This ensures the paraphrase is retrievable, satisfying the retrieval condition. 3. The negative ROUGE-L score between the query and the paraphrase. This discourages trivial attacks that involve simply inserting the query into the adversarial document. Generator Trained with the feedback Malicious document similar to the query Query Malicious document Similarity in retriever’s embedding space Semantic similarity with the malicious document 2. Generation condition feedback 1. Retrieval condition feedback Rouge L score between the query and the document 3. Feedback to prevent the trivial solution - + Figure 4: AdvBDGen style attack on retrieval: This figure shows the overview of the poison generator’s training framework inspired by AdvBDGen (Pathmanathan et al., 2024) For further details, refer to the Appendix. 4. Experiments Dataset and Models: We used two question answering datasets, namely Natural Question (NQ) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019) and Financial Opinion Mining and Question Answering (FIQA) Maia et al. (2018). NQ dataset is made of corpus of 2, 681, 468 documents, while the FIQA is made of a corpus of 57, 638 documents. From the queries, we randomly select 512 queries and use them as our training set. For each query, we pick 3 randomly pick documents and treat them as irrelevant documents. The goal of the attacker is to craft poisons, whose addition will make these documents retrievable. Each of the queries has 10 < relevant queries, which we call golden documents in the corpus which is used to measure the utility of the defense under benign setting. As for dense retrievers we have considered 4 retrievers namely, contriever (Izacard et al., 2022), ANCE Xiong et al. (2020), multilingual e5 (Wang et al., 2024) and GTE large Li et al. (2023). Evaluation metrics: We measure two evaluation metrics to measure both the robustness of the defense under attacks and the utility of the it under benign settings. The success of an attack is measured by the attack success rate (ASR) which measures the number of times the retriever retrieved atleast one poison or malicious document for test queries. The utility, on the other hand, is measured by the success rate (SR) that counts the number of times the retriever retrieved atleast one golden document for test queries. We measure the average drop in the SR as measure of the drop in utility