Video Enriched Retrieval Augmented Generation Using Aligned Video Captions Kevin Dela Rosa Snap Inc. Santa Monica, California, USA kevd1337@gmail.com Figure 1: Sample output of chat assistant app leveraging retrieved video content stored in the form of aligned video captions ABSTRACT In this work, we propose the use of "aligned visual captions" as a mechanism for integrating information contained within videos into retrieval augmented generation (RAG) based chat assistant systems. These captions are able to describe the visual and audio content of videos in a large corpus while having the advantage of being in a textual format that is both easy to reason about & incorporate into large language model (LLM) prompts, but also Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s). MRR 2024, July 18, 2024, Washington, DC © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). typically require less multimedia content to be inserted into the multimodal LLM context window, where typical configurations can aggressively fill up the context window by sampling video frames from the source video. Furthermore, visual captions can be adapted to specific use cases by prompting the original foundational model / captioner for particular visual details or fine tuning. In hopes of helping advancing progress in this area, we curate a dataset and describe automatic evaluation procedures on common RAG tasks. CCS CONCEPTS • Information systems →Information retrieval; • Comput- ing methodologies →Visual content-based indexing and re- trieval. arXiv:2405.17706v1 [cs.AI] 27 May 2024 MRR 2024, July 18, 2024, Washington, DC Kevin Dela Rosa KEYWORDS Retrieval Augmented Generation, Cross-modal Retrieval, Multi- modal Retrieval, Large Language Model Applications, Chatbots ACM Reference Format: Kevin Dela Rosa. 2024. Video Enriched Retrieval Augmented Generation Using Aligned Video Captions. In Proceedings of the 2024 SIGIR Workshop on Multimodal Representation and Retrieval (MRR 2024). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 5 pages. 1 INTRODUCTION Video content in the forms of YouTube shorts, TikToks, Instagram Reels or the like are quickly becoming many people’s main form of content ingestion online. At the same time, following the initial deluge of work on large language models there has been a recent surge in work to understand videos, with big corporate systems like OpenAI GPT-4 Vision and Google Gemini incorporating basic image and video chatting capabilities into their chat AI applications, as well as academic systems like [6] [5], [10], [4]. Surprisingly while there are many works that touch on video un- derstanding at various levels, there have been relatively few works that have used videos in a retrieval augmented generation (RAG) [2] context; some notable related works include EgoInstructor [9] where the authors introduce a retrieval augmented multimodal captioning model that retrieves relevant exocentric videos as ref- erences to