AFT will have more data to help the LLM perceive the quality of different COT paths, which enhances the final performance. This growing accuracy shows the effectiveness and the potential of AFT. 6.3 ABLATION ON THE BOUNDARY VALUE The boundary constraint term of AFT requires a hyper-parameter β to regulate the boundary. In this section, we conduct an ablation study to demonstrate the impact of varying β values. As depicted in Figure 2(b), the performance initially increases and subsequently decreases as β ranges from -0.8 to 0.8. These findings align with expectations, as a small β cannot effectively widen the score gap between high-quality and low-quality COTs, while an overly large β may result in excessively low scores for non-optimal COTs, thereby compromising the model’s generative abilities. In conclusion, the results emphasize the importance of the boundary constraint term and indicate that the value of β can significantly affect model performance. Therefore, it is essential to carefully adjust this value when using our boundary constraint alignment loss. 6.4 EFFECTIVENESS OF AFT WITH SELF-CONSISTENCY Self-consistency is a highly effective strategy for improving LLM’s reasoning performance. This method involves sampling multiple COTs and utilizing a voting process to determine the final answer during inference. AFT samples COTs for training to develop better LLMs. Both methods utilize COTs to enhance the model’s reasoning ability. In this section, we explore the combination of AFT and Self-Consistency. As illustrated in Figure 2(c), as the number of paths increases, the improvement of AFT is more significant than VFT, demonstrating that AFT effectively enhances self-consistency. We believe the reason is that AFT helps models learn to assess the quality of different COTs by encouraging larger scores for high-quality COTs compared to low-quality ones. This means that high-quality COTs are more likely to be sampled, and thus, AFT can enhance self-consistency. 6.5 EFFECTIVENESS OF AFT ON THE MULTI-TASK AND OUT-OF-DOMAIN SITUATIONS To further demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of AFT, we investigate its performance in multi-task scenarios. We combine the training sets of three datasets and use both AFT and VFT to train the LLama-7B model. As depicted in Table 5, AFT is able to simultaneously enhance the performance of all corresponding test sets. Additionally, we evaluate both AFT and VFT on the MMLU (zero-shot), an out-of-distribution benchmark, and AFT also outperforms VFT. These results 9 Preprint indicate that AFT not only improves the performance of in-distribution tasks but also enhances the model’s transfer ability, leading to significantly better out-of-distribution performance. 7 CONCLUSION In this paper, we find that the vanilla fine-tuned (VFT) LLMs with chain-of-thought (COT) reasoning process suffer from an assessment misalignment problem, i.e, they fail to access the quality of different COTs of the learned questions, which hinders the reasoning ability of LLMs. To this end, we propose an alignment fine-tuning (AFT) paradigm. Our AFT consists of a novel constraint alignment loss that can align the model assessment behaviors without harming the model performance. Furthermore, we also delve deeply into recent widely used ranking losses