lem in information retrieval typically involve using LLMs themselves to solve this problem. Broadly, there are two ways of doing this: the first involves the use of LLMs to decompose the query into sub-queries each of which require less complex reasoning (Patel et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2023), and the second involves the use of LLMs to gen- erate intermediary reasoning steps, called chain of thought (Wei et al., 2022c), to answer the query. These intermediary steps are then used to generate IR search queries and the resultant facts are fed back to an LLM to generate a response (Shao et al., 2023). While these methods show some promise, the problem with them is clear: they are yet an- other opaque mechanism the failure of which will be hard to fix. In fact, we might be able to improve these systems be fine-tuning models to perform this task. However, such a solution is only going to further obfuscate the process. 1.2 Contributions To address these concerns we propose a novel, transparent, and mutable storage and retrieval sys- tem for the mitigation of factual hallucinations in LLMs. This solution is based on theoretical insights from cognitive linguistics, specifically frame seman- tics. Specifically, this work makes the following contributions: 1. We propose a novel, transparent, and mutable storage and retrieval system for the mitiga- tion of factual hallucinations in LLMs which is based on theoretical insights from frame semantics. We call this system FS-RAG. 2. We show the effectiveness of our method by experimenting on a closed domain question answering. Specifically, our method of stor- age and retrieval provides a significant boost over both treditional search systems and, sig- nificantly, also outperforms an LLM based search system wherein we generate search terms using a Language Model. 3. We show that our method has the significant additional advantage of being interpretable, and thus having the potential to provide data- driven insights to the theory of frame seman- tics. 2 Frame Semantics Given the context provided earlier, it is evident that only the most frequently occurring factual in- formation from pre-training is explicitly retained in LLMs. Less frequently occurring facts are not explicitly stored and instead the model has access to only statistical approximations. Given that the exact information stored is not explicit and also different for models of different scale and training regimes, the only way to get around hallucination is to explicitly provide LLMs with all but the most common information The effectiveness of RAG provides an easy mechanism for including such information. However, as mentioned previously, the effectiveness of this method hinges on the non- trivial task of retrieving relevant information. We propose that this mechanism can be found in the concept of Frame Semantics in cognitive lin- guistics, which purportedly facilitate human under- standing of words by allowing us to recall pertinent information. Frame semantics (Fillmore et al., 2006) is a theory of linguistic meaning that emphasises that the meanings of words are best understood by the semantic and