Large Language Models in Ambulatory Devices for Home Health Diagnostics: A case study of Sickle Cell Anemia Management 1,2Oluwatosin Ogundare, 3Subuola Sofolahan 1Siemens Technology 2California State University, San Bernardino 3Oklahoma State University, Stillwater May 8, 2023 Abstract This study investigates the potential of an ambulatory device that incorporates Large Language Models (LLMs) in cadence with other spe- cialized ML models to assess anemia severity in sickle cell patients in real time. The device would rely on sensor data that measures angiogenic material levels to assess anemia severity, providing real-time information to patients and clinicians to reduce the frequency of vaso-occlusive crises because of the early detection of anemia severity, allowing for timely inter- ventions and potentially reducing the likelihood of serious complications. The main challenges in developing such a device are the creation of a reli- able non-invasive tool for angiogenic level assessment, a biophysics model and the practical consideration of an LLM communicating with emer- gency personnel on behalf of an incapacitated patient. A possible system is proposed, and the limitations of this approach are discussed. 1 Introduction Every now and again, one might suﬀer from insomnia, anemia and other symp- toms for a variety of reasons. In sickle patients, it might be part of a vaso- occlusive episode. In many cases, the timing of these episodes punctuates the experience especially for acute suﬀerers. When there is more awareness of the symptoms and what they indicate, a regimen that ameliorates the condition might be easily developed. However, in many developing countries, the liv- ing conditions complicates mainstream notions of healthcare regimen and more decisive measures to deliver information are needed. Advancement in nanotech- nology and solid state physics have driven the boom in wearable technology or the so-called ambulatory devices. What remains a deterrent for many is that the interpretation of the data that is harvested by the integrated micro 1 arXiv:2305.03715v1 [cs.CL] 5 May 2023 and nano sensors are not easily accessible to the layman or intuitive. Many potential customers ﬁnd a display dominated by numbers without any partic- ular personalized interpretation tedious. In the last decade, ﬁtness and health engineers have begun to incorporate sleep quality assessment into commercial ambulatory devices and in some cases provide information on the onset of a fu- ture sleep episode [4][5][6] but no real advancement has been made in wearable technology to arrest sudden emergent vaso-occlusive crises in sickle cell patients especially young children in impoverished West African countries. Emergent vaso-occlusive crises often lead to fatalities and is responsible for up to 16% of mortality in children under the age of 5 years in West African countries espe- cially Nigeria with the documented largest sickle cell gene pool in the world [1]. Fahlenkamp & Sofolahan model work on developing a 3D angiogenesis model for biosensing works well in tandem with the prevailing theory that angiogen- esis mechanisms are more easily engendered in children with sickle cell anemia as they tend to have elevated angiogenic progenitors [9] [2] [3]. The ideas in