difference between intersection-based and majority vote-based aggregation is minimal in that case, unlike in the naive baseline. However, when considering SR over golden documents, Figure 5 shows that intersection-based aggregation causes a larger drop in SR, making it unsuitable for practical deployment. Therefore, we adopt majority vote-based aggregation for the rest of the paper. For more detailed results, see Table 14, 15, 16, and 17 in the Appendix. Viability of the naive combination baseline vs RAGPart as a practical defense: Although the naive combination baseline preserves utility slightly better than RAGPart under majority vote-based aggregation (Figure 5), it fails to defend against any of the considered attacks. This makes RAGPart a practically viable defense. Effectiveness of RAGPart & RAGMask: As shown in Figure 8, both RAGPart and RAGMask effectively defend against all considered attacks, outperforming baseline defenses, with RAGPart achieving slightly better ASR reduction. In terms of utility preservation, RAGMask demonstrates a stronger ability to maintain retrieval performance, as shown in Figure 7. NQ FIQA 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 RAGPart (PEA) RAGMask Datasets % drop in SR Figure 7: Drop in success rate (SR) (lower the better): Figure showcases that both the RAGPart and RAGMask showed smaller drop in utility with RAGMask performing slightly better. HotFlip HotFlip (spread out) Query as Poison AdvBDGen 0 20 40 60 80 100 RAGPart RAGMask Paraphrase % drop in ASR (a) NQ dataset HotFlip HotFlip (spread out) Query as Poison AdvBDGen 0 20 40 60 80 100 RAGPart RAGMask Paraphrase % drop in ASR (b) FiQA dataset Figure 8: Drop in attack success rate (ASR) (higher is better): This figure shows that across different datasets and attack types, both of our proposed methods—RAGPart and RAGMask —consistently maintain robustness. While paraphrasing-based defenses perform well against gradient-based attacks, they fail to defend against interpretable attacks such as Query-as-Poison and AdvRAGgen. 10 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Computational efficiency of RAGPart & RAGMask: Although RAGMask performs better in preserving the utility of benign retrievals and provides comparable robustness, it is relatively more expensive computationally. For a corpus of size D and an embedding space of dimension ne, RAGPart requires 2ne ⋅D ⋅(N k ) floating point operations (FLOPs), where N is the number of fragments and k is the combination size. Given that the retriever requires R FLOPs to embed a document during the forward pass, RAGMask requires R ⋅li m ⋅αp FLOPs, where li is the maximum document length, m is the mask size, and αp is the number of documents retrieved prior to sanitation. In practice, R may be large depending on the retriever’s architecture. Thus, a computational tradeoff exists between RAGPart and RAGMask. However, since retrievers are generally smaller than autoregressive LLMs used for generation, RAGMask remains computationally tractable compared to generation-stage defenses such as Xiang et al. (2024), which require multiple LLM calls at inference time. 6. Theoretical Analysis In the absence of adversarial documents, we assume that the top-p retrieved results across