vi- sual frames. Instead, the peculiarity of CLIPBERT is that it randomly samples few short clips from the full-length videos at each training step. The latter category is the only one without a shared encoder: there are still two separate encoders for video and NL, and the resulting embeddings are correlated only through a loss function. The idea comes from the Siamese network model, where the TML is applied to keep similar objects closer and move dissimilar ones further away. Un- like Siamese networks, the two branches are two separate architectures, each with its weights. In the method proposed by Miech et al. [16] the authors apply a 3D CNN back- bone, speciﬁcally I3D [2], for the video embedding and pre- trained word2vec [17] embeddings for NL. Then they intro- duce a speciﬁc loss, the Multiple Instance Learning Noise Contrastive Estimation Loss, to correlate the multi-modal information. AYCE, the model proposed in this paper, be- longs to this third category. 3. Data Analysis Before diving into the design of the architecture, we inspected the CityFlow-NL [7] dataset. This section re- ports the insights that we have exploited to build the AYCE model. The training set is composed of N = 2498 en- tries, and each entry i has three objects: (i) three sentences ti 1, ti 2, ti 3 in NL describing a Single Vehicle Tracking (SVT) sequence that appears in the video; (ii) a video of variable length; and (iii) the bounding box annotation of the tracked vehicle for each frame in the video. For all the informa- tion concerning (ii), (iii) and the video more in general, we will use the notation vi with i ∈{1 . . . , N}. Each video sequence has in average 81 frames (min: 1, max: 3620), while each sentence ti j is composed in average of 9 words (min: 3, max: 30). As also explained in the original work by Feng et al. [7], each sentence describes the target vehicle in terms of type of vehicle, color, and performed action. However, it also occurs that some of this information is missing at sentence level: the 0.76% of the 7494 sentences misses the vehicle type, 4.68% the vehicle color, and 1.53% the performed action. However, given that a SVT sequence is described by a sentence-triplet and not only by a single sentence, it never occurs that those data are missing in all three sen- tences. Nevertheless, the three sentences are not consistent with each other. Inside a sentence-triplet, there are on aver- age 2.07 different target vehicle types, 1.85 different colors, and 2.63 different performed actions. Therefore, it is clear that the sentence-triplet plays a central role in the model. Finally, we decided to analyze the heterogeneity of the data both at sentence-level and at sentence-triplet-level. We discovered that the sentences are very similar to each other. In particular, at sentence-level, the most recurrent sentence occurs 53 times, while at sentence-triplet-level 15 sentence- triplets have two identical sentences among the three, and