user. Let 𝑇= {(𝑢1,𝑥1,𝑦1), (𝑢2,𝑥2,𝑦2), · · · , (𝑢𝑁,𝑥𝑁,𝑦𝑁)} be a set of 𝑁training instances, each consisting of a user 𝑢, an input text 𝑥submitted by the user 𝑢, and the ground truth personal- ized output 𝑦. For each user 𝑢, a user profile 𝑃𝑢exists that can be employed for developing personalized generation models. A user profile 𝑃𝑢is a set of personal documents associated with the user 𝑢. As discussed in Section 1, this paper focuses on retrieval aug- mented solutions for personalization, depicted in Figure 1. In such solutions, we first retrieve a set of personal documents from the user profile 𝑃𝑢. This is achieved through 𝐿= R(𝜙𝑞(𝑥); 𝑃𝑢) where 𝜙𝑞is a query generation function that produces a search query string given the LLM input 𝑥and R is a retrieval model that retrieves personal documents from 𝑃𝑢given a query produced by 𝜙𝑞. Hence, R returns a list of personal documents 𝐿. A prompt generation function 𝜙𝑝is then applied to the LLM input and the retrieved result list as follows: 𝜙𝑝(𝑥, 𝐿). The constructed personalized prompt is then fed into a LLM 𝑀. The goal is to minimize the error between the generated output and the ground truth personalized output 𝑦. We assume that the LLM 𝑀is given and we do not aim at updating the LLM parameters for personalized generation. The rational behind this decision is that (1) fine-tuning 𝑀is often very expensive, and more importantly (2) the LLM 𝑀can memorize personal information if it is fine-tuned on data retrieved from the user’s personal data 𝑃𝑢. Such memorization can put the user’s privacy at risk. That said, this paper focuses on minimizing the personalized text generation error by solely updating the retrieval results 𝐿. Section 4 studies methods for optimizing the retrieval model R𝜃 parameterized by 𝜃for updating the result list 𝐿. Section 5 extends Section 4 by exploring optimization solutions for retrieval model selection from a set of pre-defined retrieval models for updating the result list 𝐿. 4 LEARNING TO RETRIEVE FOR PERSONALIZING LLMS Learning-to-rank (LTR) methods are often employed to train rank- ing models for search and recommendation [6]. For personalized LTR, the user’s profile and long-term history are often utilized. Such personalized implicit feedback signals are often document-level and directly provided by the user, such as ratings, clicks, views, dwell time, and/or purchases [5, 56]. In the context of retrieval-augmented personalized text generation, user feedback manifests in the form of text written or edited by the user (i.e., the label 𝑦𝑖for each input 𝑥𝑖), taking into account the user preferences and interests. There- fore, accessing user feedback on a per-document basis within the user profile for training retrieval models is not feasible; neither is collecting document-level feedback through annotation, e.g., crowd- sourcing. The main reason is that we do not know what documents serve the LLM best for generating personalized outputs for each input text. Therefore, learning to rank documents for LLM person- alization is fundamentally different from developing personalized search or recommendation engines. Considering