i = E(pi, I) ▷Execute and get feedback 13: if F i is sucess then 14: K ←K ∪{pi} ▷Evolve knowledge base 15: else 16: K ←K ∪{(pi, F i)} ▷Evolve knowledge base 17: end if 18: if i = 0 then 19: I ←Mt(n, pi) ▷Generate test inputs 20: end if 21: if terminate condition is satisfied then 22: break 23: end if 24: end for 25: Return: p: output code. gramming language naturally align with the LLM generation objective and provide concrete exam- ples of inputs, outputs, and parameters. Further- more, they serve as a means to convey information about the programming language itself, providing crucial details such as bracket placement, utiliza- tion of special tokens, and other grammar. Before evaluation, we collect a set of code snippets ver- ified to be free of syntax errors (more details in Appendix D). Additionally, we also accumulate code solutions generated by LLMs. 2.2.2 Evolution The evolution of knowledge bases is primarily con- tributed by the execution feedback and code snip- pets. In each iteration, we execute the generated program with sample inputs (Appendix C). If the execution successfully exits, we classify the code snippet as “syntax-correct”, which can serve as a demonstration for other instances to refer to. Otherwise, we add the (code snippet, error messages) pair to the knowledge base. Through- out the process of iterative generation, the knowl- edge base evolves to include increasingly rich in- formation. 2.3 EVOR Pipeline Algorithm 1 demonstrates the EVOR pipeline. In every iteration i, we first formulate the query qi (§2.1), and use it to retrieve relevant information Kr from the knowledge base K. The program pi is then generated conditioned on both n and Kr. We get the execution feedback F i by executing pi on LLM-generated test inputs I using the compiler or interpreter E. The knowledge base K is then evolved to include pi if the execution is successful, or the pair of (pi, F i) otherwise. The pipeline exits either upon reaching the termination condition or the maximum iteration steps. In the experiments, we set the maximum iterations to 30 and the termi- nation condition to be the same execution feedback in consecutive 3 iterations, i.e., the algorithm exits if the program is successfully executed or results in the same error in consecutive 3 iterations. 2.4 Datasets Since LLMs are extensively trained on public data, we curate a new benchmark to evaluate their gen- eralization capability with EVOR. Specifically, we introduce four datasets where two focus on updated libraries and two are about long-tail programming languages. We first modified two popular Python libraries, Scipy and Tensorflow, to simulate the real updates 3, and denote them as Scipy-M and Tensorflow-M re- spectively. We then collect problems of the Scipy and Tensorflow split from DS-1000 (Lai et al., 2023) and adapt them to our modified version. For the long-tail programming languages, we select Ring and Pony. They have little public data and are excluded from the StarCoder training set, which