access to the RAG system S: A(𝑑∗, S) = ( 1, if 𝑑∗∈D 0, if 𝑑∗∉D The very use of a RAG system implies that the generative model’s knowledge is not wholly self-contained. This reliance often stems from the need to reference specific, potentially sensitive informa- tion or to incorporate detailed factual knowledge that is not part of the system’s pre-trained model. Depending on the nature of the documents used, successful inference can lead to significant implications while posing unique challenges: • PII-Containing Documents: Documents that contain per- sonally identifiable information—such as internal user records, support tickets, financial transactions, or health-related forms— may not need to be leaked in full for privacy to be compro- mised. The mere confirmation that a particular document is part of the retrieval corpus can reveal that an individual engaged with a system, received a specific service, or ap- pears in a sensitive internal context. Such inferences may already constitute privacy violations under data protection regulations like GDPR, particularly when tied to specific individuals. • Factual Knowledge Sources: Internal documentation such as policy guidelines, compliance manuals, proprietary re- search summaries, or strategic planning documents often contain overlapping factual content. While these documents may be more difficult to target directly, a successful mem- bership inference can still reveal valuable information. For example, confirming that a particular regulatory checklist or internal strategy document is part of the RAG knowledge base may expose ongoing initiatives, compliance focus ar- eas, or future product directions—information that can be strategically sensitive even in the absence of direct content leakage. MIAs are therefore relevant not only from a privacy or IP exposure standpoint, but also for auditing and compliance purposes. Because RAG systems ingest documents at deployment time, the ability to determine document membership enables verification of whether sensitive, protected, or unlicensed content was indexed. This can assist with GDPR audits or copyright enforcement. At the same time, the same capability can be exploited as a preliminary step in more sophisticated data extraction attacks [5]. 3 Successful membership inference in a RAG system is not straight- forward to achieve. The adversary must first ensure that the target document𝑑∗, if present, is consistently retrieved by the RAG system during its operation. Additionally, the adversary must craft queries in a manner that not only distinguishes the target document from other potentially related documents in D but also bypasses any intermediate processes employed by the RAG system (as discussed in Section 4) that may limit inference success. Adversary’s Capabilities. We operate under a black-box access model where the adversary can query the target RAG system, but possesses no information about its underlying models or compo- nents. We assume the adversary has access to an auxiliary LLM, which it leverages to generate queries and interpret answers. The adversary lacks knowledge of the retriever and generator models used by the victim, including their hyperparameters (e.g., 𝑘for top- 𝑘retrieval, temperature settings for generation, etc.). The adversary also lacks knowledge of system instructions used in the victim RAG system,