[241] successfully reproduced the emergent properties of multimodal reasoning for the first time on an unsupervised fine-tuned model with only 2 billion parameters. Through experiments, VisuLogic [199] was found that RL is an effective way to enhance the visual reasoning ability of multimodal large language models. R1-VL [222] proposed the StepGRPO algorithm, which provides rewards for paths containing necessary intermediate reasoning steps through soft key step matching technology, and incentivizes reasoning processes that are structured and logically consistent through reasoning completeness and logicality evaluation strategies, thereby achieving dense rewards for visual-language reasoning tasks. SophiaVL-R1 [35] incorporated reasoning-process reward signals by computing the difference in reasoning rewards between correct and incorrect answers, and dynamically assigning confidence weights to these reasoning rewards, thereby mitigating the impact of unreliable reasoning rewards. Video-R1 [38] and TinyLLaVA-Video-R1 [227] successively applied reinforcement learning to the video domain. Video-R1 established a dataset for video reasoning and designed a mechanism where the model receives positive rewards only when its current reasoning strategy for specific questions demonstrates dependence on temporal information, thereby strengthening the large model’s temporal modeling ability. TinyLLaVA-Video-R1 [227], on the other hand, explored how to use reinforcement learning to enhance the video reasoning capabilities of small-scale models. Liao et al. [100] discussed methods to enhance the visual-spatial reasoning abilities of MLLMs through R1-Zero-style training. SpaceR [128] extended GRPO through a map imagination mechanism, prompting the model to infer spatial layouts during the thinking process, thereby enhancing the video spatial reasoning ability of MLLMs. The essence of humans’ and robots’ cognition of the environment lies in perceiving and understanding spatial relationships through first-person perspective video streams. Therefore, a crucial aspect of embodied intelligence tasks is that the model needs to possess the ability to perceive and understand spatial relationships from first-person perspective video streams. Zhao et al. [233] proposed the Embodied-R framework, which realizes collaborative work by combining the perceptual capabilities of large-scale VLMs with the reasoning capabilities of small-scale Language Models. Ego-R1 [161] explored a new framework for reasoning over ultra-long (measured in days/weeks) first-person videos. By decomposing complex Manuscript submitted to ACM RL Meets LLMs: A Survey of Advancements and Applications Across the LLM Lifecycle 17 reasoning into modular steps, the RL agent iteratively collaborates by calling specific tools at each step, sequentially solving sub-problems such as temporal retrieval and multimodal understanding, thereby significantly extending the time coverage from several hours to a week. VAU-R1 [246] extended RLVR to the field of Video Anomaly Understanding (VAU), enhances anomaly reasoning capabilities through Reinforcement Fine-Tuning (RFT), and introduces VAUBench, the first CoT benchmark specifically designed for video anomaly reasoning. VLN-R1 [135] extended RLVR to the field of Vision-Language Navigation (VLN). CAD-Coder [47] introduced RL into the field of artificial intelligence-assisted CAD. Chen et al. [24] combined SFT with GRPO and introduce a rule-based reward tailored to scene graph structures, improving the structural validity, relationship recall, and long-tail category performance of MLLMs in end-to-end scene graph generation. ARMed [111] explored the application of RLVR techniques in the domain