for exact task scores. Figure 11 shows that Primer achieves the same pretraining perplexity and one-shot downstream performance as Transformer+GELU while using 3X less compute. Table 6 in the Appendix gives the exact performance numbers for each of the 27 evaluated downstream tasks. Primer, despite using 3X less compute, outperforms Transfomer+GELU on 5 tasks, does worse on 1 task, and performs equivalently on the remaining 21 tasks. The same table shows that when given equivalent compute, Primer outperforms Transformer+GELU on 15 tasks, does worse on 2 tasks, and performs equivalently on the remaining 10 tasks. This result shows that not only can Primer improve language modeling perplexity, but the improvements also transfer to downstream NLP tasks. 5 Conclusion Limitations: There are limitations to this study. First, although our comparisons are at substantial sizes, they are still orders of magnitude smaller than state-of-the-art models such as the full-scale GPT-3 [7]. Second, we focus primarily on decoder-only models, while encoder-based sequence models are still widely used [1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 52]. In Appendix A.12, we perform encoder-decoder masked language modeling comparisons in T5, but do not study the results in signiﬁcant depth. The main ﬁnding there is that, although Primer modiﬁcations improve upon vanilla Transformer, they perform only as well as Transformer++. This result suggests that architectural modiﬁcations that work well for decoder-only auto-regressive language models may not necessarily be as effective for encoder-based masked language models. Developing better encoders is a topic of our future research. Recommendations and Future Directions: We recommend the adoption of Primer and Primer-EZ for auto-regressive language modeling because of their strong performance, simplicity, and robustness to hyperparameter and codebase changes. To prove their potential, we simply dropped them into established codebases and, without any changes, showed that they can give signiﬁcant performance boosts. Furthermore, in practice, additional tuning could further improve their performance. We also hope our work encourages more research into the development of efﬁcient Transformers. For example, an important ﬁnding of this study is that small changes to activation functions can yield more efﬁcient training. In the effort to reduce the cost of Transformers, more investment in the development of such simple changes could be a promising area for future exploration. 10 Acknowledgements We thank Zhen Xu for his help with infrastructure. We also thank Gabriel Bender, Hallie Cramer, Andrew Dai, Nan Du, Yanping Huang, Daphne Ippolito, Norm Jouppi, Lluis-Miquel Munguia, Sharan Narang, Ruoming Pang, David Patterson, Yanqi Zhou, and the Google Brain Team for their help and feedback. References [1] Ashish Vaswani, Noam M. Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017. [2] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In NAACL, 2018. [3] Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V Le. Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language understanding. In Advances in Neural Information Processing