usually used as a tool to split the input sentence into the granularity of sub-words. Most of the existing textual LLMs take the sentence piece as the tokenizer for its universal processing of multi-lingual texts. The de-tokenization for the sentence piece is very simple, which just works as a function to re- place the meta-symbol ‘ ’ with the whitespace. Recently, tokenization (or denoted as discretization) in non-textual modalities has gained much attention and achieved substantial improvements, which makes it possible to build a fully token-in-token-out MM-LLM. The most widely used methods are VQ-VAE and k-means clustering. In this paper, we take the encoder of the VQ-VAE models and the k-means clustering as the tokenizers for the image and audio respectively. The decoders of the VQ-VAE models are taken as the de-tokenizers for the image and audio. For the image, we test the following typical tokenizers (and the corresponding de-tokenizers): 4 Work in Progress • DALL-E (Ramesh et al., 2021): They train a discrete variational autoen-coder (dVAE) to compress each 256×256 RGB image into a 32 × 32 grid of image tokens, each element of which can assume 8192 possible values. We harness the open-source toolkit implemented by DALLE-pytorch.1. • VQ-GAN (Esser et al., 2021): They combine the efficiency of convolutional approaches with the expressivity of transformers by introducing a convolutional VQGAN, which learns a codebook of context-rich visual parts, whose composition is modeled with an autoregres- sive transformer. We follow the open-source toolkit, Taming-Transformer, and directly use their released pre-trained models.2 • BEiT-V2 (Peng et al., 2022): They propose vector-quantized knowledge distillation (VQ- KD) to train the visual tokenizer, where the tokenizer is trained to reconstruct the semantic features of a teacher model. We utilize the officially released toolkit and models.3 For the audio, we apply K-means Clustering on the intermediate features of the following typical models, and the cluster indices are directly used as the discrete tokens for speech. • HuBERT (Hsu et al., 2021): They incorporate an offline clustering step to generate aligned target labels for a BERT-like prediction loss for self-supervised representation learning. Through masked prediction, the model is forced to learn both acoustic and language models from continuous inputs. • Whisper (Radford et al., 2023): Whisper is a Transformer-based speech recognition model, which is trained on many different speech processing tasks via large-scale weak mul- tilingual and multitask supervision. In this paper, we conduct experiments with the Whispersmall to get discrete audio tokens. 3.3 TWO-STAGE SUPERVISED FINETUNING The proposed TEAL model is initialized with the open-sourced textual LLM. To obtain the un- derstanding and generation ability in non-textual modalities and maintain its high performance in textual modality, we propose a two-stage supervised fine-tuning that trains the model with parame- ters tuned as little as possible. In the following, we denote the two stages of supervised fine-tuning as pre-training and fine-tuning separately. Pre-training The goal of the pre-training is to align the non-textual and textual embedding space by tuning the projection layer. Specifically, we freeze all