alignment phase. The latest advances in reward model design will be discussed in detail in the next subsection. 3.3 Emerging Methods for Reward Model Design The reward model plays a key role in guiding large language models to generate outputs that align with human expectations. Recently, a series of studies [23, 49, 114, 174, 234] have utilized testing-phase computational resources to enhance the performance of reward models. Guo et al. present the Reward Reasoning Model (RRM) [49], which is trained using a reinforcement learning framework. Through the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning mechanism, RRM can adaptively call additional testing phase computational resources for complex queries where reward judgments are unclear. Zhao et al. [234] introduced a generative process reward model, which performs explicit CoT reasoning and code verification before making judgments for each reasoning step. Chen et al. [23] framed reward modeling as a reasoning task. By distilling high-quality reasoning chains and training in two phases—reinforcement learning based on verifiable rewards—the model achieves state-of-the-art performance on three major reward model benchmarks. Wang et al. [174] presented the first unified reward model, UNIFIEDREWARD-THINK, based on multimodal CoT reasoning. This model uses exploration-driven reinforcement fine-tuning to unlock the model’s latent complex reasoning capabilities. Liu et al. [114] proposed a rule-based online RL trained Pointwise Generative Reward Modeling (GRM) method, which can evaluate single, paired, and multiple responses, thereby overcoming the limitations of traditional reward models in input flexibility. At the same time, Yu et al. [217] explored how to improve the generalization of reward models, advocating that reward models should understand and follow dynamically provided natural language reward principles, similar to instruction following in large language models. A novel reward model is introduced that is designed and trained by explicitly following natural language principles. Li et al. [95] found that any LLM trained using standard next-token prediction inherently contains a powerful general-purpose reward model. AUTORULE [170] builds rule-based rewards Manuscript submitted to ACM 12 Keliang Liu et al. by extracting rules from preference feedback through interpretation, candidate selection, and merging, then using a verifier to measure rule satisfaction as an auxiliary reward alongside a learned reward model. 4 Reinforcement Learning Methods in the Reasoning Phase With the release of GPT-o1 [70] and DeepSeek R1 [48], the focus of research on reinforcement learning for large language models has gradually shifted towards RLVR technology in 2025. This chapter will introduce the latest advancements in the algorithms of RLVR technology and will discuss its applications in multimodal reasoning, adaptive thinking, agents, as well as the integration of RL with other techniques in the fine-tuning phase. Figure 3 illustrates the overall framework diagram of RLVR technology and the key technical points that can be improved. 4.1 Experimental Findings of RLVR in Improving the Reasoning Ability of LLMs Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards has recently demonstrated notable success in enhancing the reasoning performance of LLMs, particularly in mathematics and programming tasks. However, there is controversy in academic circles over whether RL truly expands the model’s reasoning ability, or merely