in knowledge conflicts. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Represen- tations, 2023. Xiong, G., Jin, Q., Lu, Z., and Zhang, A. Benchmarking retrieval-augmented generation for medicine. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024, pp. 6233–6251, 2024. Xu, T., Zheng, H., Li, C., Chen, H., Liu, Y., Chen, R., and Sun, L. Noderag: Structuring graph-based rag with heterogeneous nodes. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11544, 2025. 10 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory Yang, Z., Qi, P., Zhang, S., Bengio, Y., Cohen, W., Salakhut- dinov, R., and Manning, C. D. Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing, pp. 2369–2380, 2018. Zhong, X. et al. Assessing knowledge editing in language models via multi-hop questions. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan- guage Processing (EMNLP), 2024. 11 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory Appendix Within this supplementary material, we elaborate on the following aspects: • Appendix A: PABD Algorithm • Appendix B: IGMiRAG Pipeline Example • Appendix C: Case Studies • Appendix D: Experimental Details • Appendix E: Additional Discussions • Appendix F: All LLM Prompts A. PABD Algorithm To clearly elucidate the internal mechanisms of the PABD algorithm, we present a complete workflow example in Figure 7, and provide corresponding pseudocode in Algorithm 1. The PABD algorithm follows an alternating inference rule of “top-down broadcasting and bottom-up screening”. Starting from the memory anchors, it performs bidirectional diffusion across knowledge levels at each iteration, enabling the deductive propagation of relevance scores. Specifically, the score propagation within each iteration comprises two directed phases: (i)The top-down diffusion process will broadcast scores from high-order anchors to their associated low-order knowledge; (ii)The bottom-up diffusion process will propagate from low-order anchors to high-order knowledge units that satisfy the threshold criteria. The intensity of this propagation is governed by both a decay factor γ and a preference coefficient ρ. While γ is a fixed hyperparameter, ρ is dynamically determined by the relevance quality of the target vertex’s adjacent vertices (detailed in Algorithm 2). The bottom-up propagation is constrained by a dynamic threshold (illustrated in Algorithm 3). This threshold adaptively adjusts its bias based on activation feedback from the diffusion process: the bias increases upon activating new vertices to suppress the introduction of noise, and decreases otherwise to inject diffusion power. The specific bias regulation mechanism is detailed in Algorithm 3. By combining this dynamic threshold mechanism with the preference-aware mechanism, the PABD algorithm effectively amplifies the scores of relevant paths while suppressing those of irrelevant ones, thereby revealing latent vertices. Furthermore, upon the completion of each iteration, all newly activated vertices are merged with the current anchors to form the starting anchors for the subsequent iteration. The PABD algorithm terminates upon complete cessation of diffusion or upon reaching the maximum iterations, returning all activated vertices and their corresponding relevance scores in descending order. New Vertices Final Vertices New Vertices Diffusion