such as "this", "that", "it", etc. Additionally, do not include phrases such as "as mentioned in the context " or "according to the passage" in the question. Assume the model that is being tested cannot see the context when answering the question .</IMPORTANT > - The answer to the question should be found inside the provided context - The question must be self -contained - in other words, the question must explicitly state any necessary titles, names, or terms. Assume that the model to be tested with this testset has no prior knowledge of the context. Avoid using pronouns or references that are not explicitly mentioned in the context. Additionally, there must be a singular and clear answer to the question. - Ensure that the modifications you make to the questions lead to and preserve a fixed and singular answer to said question, and that the potential answer to the question has not changed since the context was provided. - When generating questions with numerical answers, ensure that the number is relatively easy to verify, without margin 12 for interpretation . For example, if the answer is a date, ensure that the date is clearly stated in the context. If the answer is a large number, ensure that the number is explicitly mentioned in the context. Assume that the model cannot see the context, and the number in question can be generally understood without additional context. - The questions should be specific and unambiguous, with a clear and singular answer. Avoid generating questions that are vague, open -ended, or have multiple possible answers. Ensure that the question is clear and concise, with a single correct answer that can be found in the provided context. - The questions should be relevant to the context provided, with the answer being directly supported by the information in the context. Ensure that the question is closely related to the information in the context, and that the answer can be found within the context paragraphs. - Do not let the question contain the explicit answer to the question. The question should not contain any direct references to the answer, and the answer should not be explicitly stated in the question. The question should be phrased in a way that requires the model to use reasoning to provide the correct answer. - If the question has two parts, ensure that the second part does not simply reword the first part. The two parts should be distinctly worded and written. - Assume that each question must stand on its own without previous questions. If you choose to generate two questions about the same topic, make sure that each question is self -contained and does not rely on the other question for context. Example: if the context is about a report, reference the report by name in any questions you generate. - <IMPORTANT >DO NOT USE THE WORDS/PHRASES "THE CONTEXT", "THE DOCUMENT", "THE INFORMATION", "THE PROVIDED ..." etc IN ANY QUESTION. THE TEST SET WILL NOT INCLUDE THE