Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models Laurent Mombaerts Amazon Web Services Luxembourg, Luxembourg lmomb@amazon.com Terry Ding Amazon Web Services Arlington, VA, USA tianyd@amazon.com Florian Felice Amazon Web Services Luxembourg, Luxembourg flofelic@amazon.com Jonathan Taws Amazon Web Services Luxembourg, Luxembourg tawsj@amazon.com Adi Banerjee Amazon Web Services Boston, MA, United States adibaner@amazon.com Tarik Borogovac Amazon Web Services Boston, MA, United States tarikbo@amazon.com Figure 1: Data-centric workflow for Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. Prior to inference, documents are aug- mented with Claude 3, and clustered into metadata-based sets of synthetic questions and answers for personalized downstream retrieval. Meta Knowledge Summaries are used to guide the query augmentation step with clusters information. ABSTRACT Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a technique used to aug- ment Large Language Models (LLMs) with contextually relevant, time-critical, or domain-specific information without altering the underlying model parameters. However, constructing RAG systems that can effectively synthesize information from large and diverse Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM...$15.00 https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX set of documents remains a significant challenge. We introduce a novel data-centric RAG workflow for LLMs, transforming the traditional retrieve-then-read system into a more advanced prepare- then-rewrite-then-retrieve-then-read framework, to achieve higher domain expert-level understanding of the knowledge base. Our methodology relies on generating metadata and synthetic Ques- tions and Answers (QA) for each document, as well as introducing the new concept of Meta Knowledge Summary (MK Summary) for metadata-based clusters of documents. The proposed innovations enable personalized user-query augmentation and in-depth infor- mation retrieval across the knowledge base. Our research makes two significant contributions: using LLMs as evaluators and em- ploying new comparative performance metrics, we demonstrate that (1) using augmented queries with synthetic question matching significantly outperforms traditional RAG pipelines that rely on document chunking (𝑝< 0.01), and (2) meta knowledge-augmented arXiv:2408.09017v1 [cs.IR] 16 Aug 2024 Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, Mombaerts, et al. queries additionally significantly improve retrieval precision and recall, as well as the final answer’s breadth, depth, relevancy, and specificity. Our methodology is cost-effective, costing less than $20 per 2000 research papers using Claude 3 Haiku, and can be adapted with any fine-tuning of either the language or embedding models to further enhance the performance of end-to-end RAG pipelines. CCS CONCEPTS • Computing methodologies →Artificial intelligence; Natu- ral Language Processing; • Information systems