{Knowledge} Question: Would Richard Dawkins hypothetically refuse an offering of the Last rites? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What are the last Rites? Intermediate answer: The Last rites, in Catholicism, are the last prayers and ministrations given to an individual of the faith, when possible, shortly before death. Follow up: What are Richard Dawkins religious beliefs? Intermediate answer: Richard Dawkins is known as an outspoken atheist, well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. Follow up: Would an atheist participate in Catholics prayers? Intermediate answer: It is unlikely that an atheist would participate in Catholics prayers. So the final answer is: Yes Table 31: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Self-Ask on StrategyQA. You are required to answer the following questions. The final answer to a question should always be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. {Knowledge} Question: Is it common to see frost during some college commencements? Let’s think step by step. College commencement ceremonies often happen during the months of December, May, and sometimes June. Frost isn’t uncommon to see during the month of December, as it is the winter. So the answer is Yes {Knowledge} Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? Let’s think step by step. The War in Vietnam (1945-46) lasted around 6 months. The gestation period for a llama is 11 months. If a llama birth twice, the minimum time needed is 2 times 11 months, which is 22 months, longer than 6 months. So the answer is No {Knowledge} Question: Would Richard Dawkins hypothetically refuse an offering of the Last rites? Let’s think step by step. Richard Dawkins is known as an outspoken atheist, well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. The Last rites, in Catholicism, are the last prayers and ministrations given to an individual of the faith, when possible, shortly before death. It is unlikely that an atheist would participate in Catholics prayers. So the answer is Yes Table 32: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on StrategyQA.