Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models with Iterative Retrieval-Generation Synergy Zhihong Shao1, Yeyun Gong2, yelong shen3, Minlie Huang1∗, Nan Duan2, Weizhu Chen3 1 The CoAI Group, DCST, Institute for Artificial Intelligence, 1 State Key Lab of Intelligent Technology and Systems, 1 Beijing National Research Center for Information Science and Technology, 1 Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 2 Microsoft Research Asia 3 Microsoft Azure AI szh19@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn aihuang@tsinghua.edu.cn Abstract Retrieval-augmented generation has raise exten- sive attention as it is promising to address the limitations of large language models including outdated knowledge and hallucinations. How- ever, retrievers struggle to capture relevance, especially for queries with complex informa- tion needs. Recent work has proposed to im- prove relevance modeling by having large lan- guage models actively involved in retrieval, i.e., to guide retrieval with generation. In this pa- per, we show that strong performance can be achieved by a method we call ITER-RETGEN, which synergizes retrieval and generation in an iterative manner: a model’s response to a task input shows what might be needed to finish the task, and thus can serve as an informative context for retrieving more relevant knowledge which in turn helps generate a better response in another iteration. Compared with recent work which interleaves retrieval with gener- ation when completing a single output, ITER- RETGEN processes all retrieved knowledge as a whole and largely preserves the flexibility in generation without structural constraints. We evaluate ITER-RETGEN on multi-hop question answering, fact verification, and commonsense reasoning, and show that it can flexibly lever- age parametric knowledge and non-parametric knowledge, and is superior to or competitive with state-of-the-art retrieval-augmented base- lines while causing fewer overheads of retrieval and generation. We can further improve per- formance via generation-augmented retrieval adaptation. 1 Introduction Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) have powered numerous applications, with well- perceived utility. Despite being powerful, LLMs lack knowledge that is under-represented in their training data, and are prone to hallucinations, es- pecially in open-domain settings (OpenAI, 2023). ∗*Corresponding author: Minlie Huang. Retrieval-augmented LLMs, therefore, have raised widespread attention as LLM outputs can be poten- tially grounded on external knowledge. Previous retrieval-augmented LMs (Izacard et al., 2022b; Shi et al., 2023) typically adopted one-time retrieval, i.e., to retrieve knowledge us- ing only the task input (e.g., a user question for open-domain question answering). One-time re- trieval should suffice to fulfill the information needs if they are clearly stated in the original input, which is applicable to factoid question answering (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019) and single-hop fact ver- ification (Thorne et al., 2018), but not to tasks with complex information needs, e.g., multi-hop rea- soning (Yang et al., 2018) and long-form question answering (Fan et al., 2019). To fulfill complex information needs, recent work proposes to gather required knowledge multi- ple times throughout the generation process, using partial generation (Trivedi et al., 2022a; Press et al., 2022)) or forward-looking sentence(s) (Jiang et al., 2023) as search queries. However, such structured workflows of interleaving retrieval with generation have the following limitations: (1) as intermediate generation