(Yunjie Ji 2023). We found that even though RAG can improve the re- sponse accuracy of LLMs, they still suffer from the above- mentioned challenges significantly. Specifically, we found that even though LLMs demonstrate some level of noise ro- bustness, they tend to confuse similar information and fre- quently generate inaccurate answers when relevant informa- tion exists. For example, when faced with a question about the 2022 Nobel Prize in Literature, if there are noisy docu- ments about the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature in external documents, LLMs may become confused and provide inac- curate answers. Besides, LLMs frequently fail to reject an- swering and generate incorrect answers when none of the external documents contain relevant information. Further- more, LLMs lack the ability to summarize from multiple documents, and therefore if multiple documents are needed to answer a question, LLMs often fail to provide accurate answer. Finally, we found that even when the LLMs contain the required knowledge and are given warnings about po- tential risks in the retrieved information through instruction, they still tend to trust and prioritize the retrieved information over their own existing knowledge. The experimental results mentioned above highlight the need for further resolution of important issues in the existing RAG method. Therefore, it is crucial to exercise caution and carefully design its usage. Generally speaking, the contributions of this paper are1: • We proposed to evaluate four capabilities for retrieval- augmented generation of LLMs and created the Retrieval-Augmented Generation Benchmark in both En- glish and Chinese. To best of our knowledge, it is the first benchmark designed to assess these four capabilities for retrieval-augmented generation of LLMs. • We evaluated the existing LLMs using RGB and found the limitations of them in the four different abilities. • We analyzed the responses of LLMs in RGB and identi- fied their current shortcomings as well as suggested di- rections for improvement. Related work Retrieval-augmented models The knowledge stored in large language models is commonly out-of-date (He, Zhang, and Roth 2022) and they also sometimes generate hallu- cination (Cao et al. 2020; Raunak, Menezes, and Junczys- Dowmunt 2021; Ji et al. 2023) i.e., they may generate ir- relevant or factually incorrect contents. By using external knowledge as guidance, retrieval-augmented models can generate more accurate and reliable responses (Guu et al. 2020; Lewis et al. 2020; Borgeaud et al. 2022; Izacard et al. 2022; Shi et al. 2023; Ren et al. 2023). Retrieval- augmented models have achieved remarkable results in var- ious tasks such as open-domain QA (Izacard and Grave 2021; Trivedi et al. 2023; Li et al. 2023a), dialogue (Cai 1Our code&data: https://github.com/chen700564/RGB. News Collection The 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine was awarded on Monday to Swedish scientist Svante Pääbo for sequencing the genome of the Neanderthal. Data adjustment and filtering by Human { “Question”: “Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine?”, “Answer”: ['Svante Pääbo','Svante Paabo’] } Data generation by ChatGPT Retrieve using search engine Rerank by dense retrieval model We simulate