output probabil- ities, Azaria and Mitchell (2023) propose to train a supervised classifier on the weights from one of the hidden layers of the LLM, to predict whether a given statement is true or not. While the approach performs well, the need to access the hidden states of the model makes it unsuitable for systems that access LLMs through an API. For models that do not provide access to token probabilities, such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, differ- ent methods are needed. SelfCheckGPT (Manakul et al., 2023) addresses this problem by instead sam- pling multiple answers. Their core idea is that factual answers are more stable: when an answer is factual, we can expect that different samples will tend to be semantically similar, whereas this is less likely to be the case for hallucinated answers. Automated evaluation of text generation systems LLMs have also been leveraged to automatically evaluate other aspects of generated text fragments, beyond factuality. For instance, GPTScore (Fu et al., 2023) uses a prompt that specifies the consid- ered aspect (e.g. fluency) and then scores passages based on the average probability of the generated tokens, according to a given autoregressive LM. This idea of using prompts was previously also considered by Yuan et al. (2021), although they used a smaller fine-tuned LM (i.e. BART) and did not observe a clear benefit from using prompts. An- other approach directly asks ChatGPT to evaluate a particular aspect of the given answer by provid- ing a score between 0 and 100, or by providing a rating on a 5-star scale (Wang et al., 2023a). Re- markably, strong results can be obtained in this way, although it comes with the limitation of being sensitive to the design of the prompt. Rather than scoring individual answers, some authors have also focused on using an LLM to select the best answer among a number of candidates (Wang et al., 2023b), typically to compare the performance of different LLMs. However, care is needed with this approach, as the order in which the answers is presented can influence the result (Wang et al., 2023b). In terms of how ground truth answers or, more generally, generations, have been typically used in the literature, most approaches have relied on the availability of one or more reference answers. For instance, BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2020) and MoverScore (Zhao et al., 2019) use contex- tualised embeddings, produced by a pre-trained BERT model, to compare the similarity between the generated answer and the reference answers. BARTScore (Yuan et al., 2021) similarly uses refer- ence answers to compute aspects such as precision (estimated as the probability of generating the gen- erated answer given the reference) and recall (esti- mated as the probability of generating the reference given the generated answer). 3 Evaluation Strategies We consider a standard RAG setting, where given a question q, the system first retrieves some context c(q) and then uses the retrieved context to generate an answer as(q). When building a RAG system, we usually do not have