Methods for Personalizing Large Language Models through Retrieval Augmentation SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. Figure 3: Relative winning rate for each selected retrieval model. When multiple retrieval models get the highest score, we consider all of them with the highest score as the winner. document text using an encoder with shared parameters and applies dot product to compute the relevance score. After training, an exact or approximate nearest neighbor (kNN) algorithm is used to index the learned document representations for each user profile. We use exact kNN in our experiments. During inference, each document is scored independently and the scored documents are sorted in descending order with respect to their score. 5 RETRIEVAL MODEL SELECTION FOR PERSONALIZING LLMS We hypothesize that there are multiple aspects to LLM personal- ization and each existing retrieval model does not address all of them. For instance, retrieving recent user interactions may lead to the highest personalized text generation performance for an input, while a keyword-matching model or a semantic matching model may be optimal for another input. To validate this, we utilize the LaMP benchmark–a recent benchmark consisting of seven diverse tasks for training and evaluating personalized LLMs [43]. Statistics of these datasets are presented in Table 1. More information on the LaMP benchmark is provided in Section 6.1. We evaluate personal- ization of an 11B parameter FlanT5-XXL [8] using the following retrieval augmentation approaches: (1) no personalization (i.e., no retrieval augmentation), (2) term matching retrieval using BM25 [41], (3) zero-shot semantic matching model using Contriever [19], (4) ranking documents in the user profile based on recency, and (5 & 6) the proposed retrieval models for LLM personalization–ROPG- RL and ROPG-KD. Figure 3 illustrates the winning rate achieved by each of these models when retrieving from the user profile. To compute the winning rate, we first evaluate the recommended eval- uation metric for each of the datasets by the LaMP benchmark (i.e., accuracy for categorical classification, MAE for ordinal classi- fication, and Rouge-1 for text-generation tasks). For each retrieval model, we then count the number of inputs for which it achieves the highest personalized text generation performance among the mentioned six models. If two or more retrieval models achieve the same and the highest performance, they all get rewarded. The count is then normalized to estimate the winning rate. As evident in Figure 3, there is no consistent winner across all tasks in the LaMP benchmark. For instance, between the best text generation performance for 8.5% to 18.4% of the inputs across datasets can be achieved when no personalization is conducted. Recency-based ranking can lead to the best performance for 15.2% to 18.1% of the inputs depending on the dataset. Even the proposed ROPG-RL and ROPG-KD models provide the highest performance for 14.9% to 20.2% of the inputs across different datasets in LaMP. Given these observations, we hypothesize that selecting what ranking function to use for each input, or even when to apply per- sonalization, can improve end-to-end personalized text generation