also be applied to other deep learning libraries. 35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021), virtual. arXiv:2109.08668v2 [cs.LG] 24 Jan 2022 The discovered model, named Primer (PRIMitives searched transformER), exhibits strong perfor- mance improvements over common Transformer variants on auto-regressive language modeling. Our experiments show that Primer has the beneﬁts of (1) achieving a target quality using a smaller training cost, (2) achieving higher quality given a ﬁxed training cost, and (3) achieving a target quality using a smaller inference cost. These beneﬁts are robust and hold across model sizes (20M to 1.9B parameters), across compute scales (10 to 105 accelerator hours), across datasets (LM1B, C4, PG19 [22]), across hardware platforms (TPUv2, TPUv3, TPUv4 and V100), across multiple Transformer codebases using default conﬁgurations (Tensor2Tensor, Lingvo, and T5) and across mul- tiple model families (dense Transformers [1], sparse mixture-of-experts Switch Transformers [8], and Synthesizers [23]). We open source these comparisons to help with the reproducibility of our results.1 Our main ﬁnding is that the compute savings of Primer over Transformers increase as training cost grows, when controlling for model size and quality. These savings follow a power law with respect to quality when using optimally sized models. To demonstrate Primer’s savings in an established training setup, we compare 500M parameter Primer to the original T5 architecture, using the exact conﬁguration used by Raffel et al. [5] applied to auto-regressive language modeling. In this setting, Primer achieves an improvement of 0.9 perplexity given the same training cost, and reaches quality parity with the T5 baseline model using 4.2X less compute. We further demonstrate that Primer’s savings transfer to one-shot evaluations by comparing Primer to Transformer at 1.9B parameters in a setup similar to GPT-3 XL [7]. There, using 3X less training compute, Primer achieves similar performance to Transformer on both pretraining perplexity and downstream one-shot tasks. Our analysis shows that the improvements of Primer over Transformer can be mostly attributed to two main modiﬁcations: squaring ReLU activations and adding a depthwise convolution layer after each Q, K, and V projection in self-attention. These two modiﬁcations are simple and can be dropped into existing Transformer codebases to obtain signiﬁcant gains for auto-regressive language modeling. 2 Search Space and Search Method Searching Over TensorFlow Programs: To construct a search space for Transformer alternatives, we use operations from TensorFlow (TF). In this search space, each program deﬁnes the stackable decoder block of an auto-regressive language model. Given input tensors X ∈Rn×d that represent sequences of length n with embedding length d, our programs return tensors of the same shape. When stacked, their outputs represent next-token prediction embeddings at each sequence position. Our programs only specify model architectures and nothing else. In other words, the input and output embedding matrices themselves, as well as input preprocessing and weight optimization are not within the scope of our programs. Subprogram Bank Subprogram 0 (Main) Subprogram 1 Subprogram 2 Subprogram N ... CONV 1X1: tf.layers.dense MAX: tf.math.maximum SIN: tf.math.sin tf.layers.dense(inputs=hidden_state_0, units=512) Operation: CONV 1X1 Function Arguments: -