on self-supervised learning models, such as HuBERT (Hsu et al., 2021), W2V-BERT (Chung et al., 2021; Borsos et al., 2023), USM (Zhang et al., 2023e; Rubenstein et al., 2023), which are trained for discrimination or masking prediction and maintain semantic information of the speech. Compared with neural VQ-based tokenizers, the clustering- based approach provides enhanced flexibility as it can be applied to any pre-trained speech model without altering its underlying model structure. 3 METHOD The main goal of this paper is to enable the frozen textual LLMs to model sequences consisting of multi-modal discrete tokens. Thus, the textual LLMs obtain the ability to perform both understand- ing and generation tasks involving non-textual modalities and maintain their strong abilities in text. The main architecture of our method is illustrated in Figure 1. Firstly, we discretize the interleaved multi-modal input into a token sequence with the off-the-shelf tokenizers. Then, an open-sourced 3 Work in Progress Sentence Piece K-means clustering Vector Quantization Feature Extraction … De-Tokenizer Tokenizer … Textual Embedding Non-Textual Embedding Projection Self-Attention Self-Attention Non-Textual Output Matrix Projection Textual Output Matrix … … MM-LLM Figure 1: The main architecture of TEAL. The modules in MM-LLM denoted with the color gray make up the original textual LLM and most of them are frozen during training. textual LLM is used to model the input and output token sequence by aligning the textual and non- textual embedding space. Finally, the corresponding off-the-shelf decoder is utilized to generate the output in each modality. In the remainder of this section, we will describe the model architecture in Subsection 3.1. The tokenizer and de-tokenizer for non-textual modalities we used in this paper will be presented in Subsection 3.2. Finally, we propose our two-stage training strategies in Subsection 3.3. 3.1 MODEL ARCHITECTURE TEAL is a general method that can be applied to any open-source LLMs. In this paper, the proposed MM-LLM takes the most popular open-sourced textual LLM, i.e., LLaMA, as the backbone, which makes it easy to compare fairly with previous works. To support the modeling of non-textual tokens, the MM-LLM also incorporates a non-textual embedding layer and a non-textual output layer. Two projection layers are applied after the non-textual embedding layer and before the output layer sep- arately, which mainly serve two purposes: 1) make the output dimension of textual and non-textual embedding the same; 2) align the non-textual embedding with the textual embedding space. To ease the training process and solve the cold-start problem, we initialize the non-textual embedding and output matrix with the codebook of the tokenizer, which will be described in Subsection 3.2 in detail. 3.2 TOKENIZE AND DE-TOKENIZE Tokenization is a very popular technique in the area of natural language processing, which is usually used as a tool to split the input sentence into the granularity of sub-words. Most of the existing textual LLMs take the sentence piece as the tokenizer for its universal processing of multi-lingual texts. The de-tokenization for the sentence piece is very simple, which just works as a function