during infer- ence) are omitted to construct the state by Eq 1. Time Complexity. We discuss the complexity of M-RAG compared to a Naive RAG setup introduced in Section 2 in terms of the three steps: (1) index- ing, (2) retrieval, and (3) generation as shown in Figure 2. In terms of inference, involving (1) and (2), it is worth noting that the M-RAG exhibits a com- plexity comparable to that of a Naive RAG setup, with the additional complexity (3) only being in- volved during training. For (1), the complexity associated with construct- ing multiple partitions (e.g., using the HNSW index structure) is represented as O(M ·N log N), where M indicates the number of partitions and N indi- cates the maximum number of memories within a partition. This approach proves to be faster com- pared to a Naive RAG setup, which organizes all data within a single index structure with a construc- tion complexity of O(N′ log N′), where N′ repre- sents the total number of memories in the database. For (2), the complexity of Agent-S is approxi- mately O(M · log N), where an AKNN search is performed within each partition, incurring a cost of O(M ·log N) with HNSW. Additionally, sampling actions via Agent-S requires O(1) complexity, ow- ing to its lightweight neural network architecture. In contrast, for the Naive RAG setup, conduct- ing the AKNN search within the entire database costs O(log N′), which is marginally faster than the M-RAG setup. For (3), the complexity of Agent-R is roughly O(C · E2), where E tokens are generated via a LLM based on the transformer attention mecha- nism, and C represents the number of its MDP iter- ations. This component predominantly influences the overall training complexity. In contrast, for a Naive RAG setup, it runs only once during the infer- ence procedure to produce the generation outcomes, with a complexity of approximately O(E2). 4 Experiments 4.1 Experimental Setup Datasets. By following (Cheng et al., 2023b), we conduct experiments on seven datasets for three generation tasks: (1) text summarization (XSum Narayan et al., 2018 and BigPatent Sharma et al., 2019), (2) machine translation (JRC- Acquis Steinberger et al., 2006 with Es→En, En→Es, De→En, and En→De), and (3) dialogue generation (DailyDialog Li et al., 2017). Specif- ically, XSum comprises single-document sum- maries for highly abstractive articles sourced from BBC news. BigPatent comprises 1.3 million records of U.S. patent documents accompanied by human-written abstractive summaries. JRC-Acquis serves as a collection of parallel legislative texts of European Union Law, commonly employed as a benchmark in machine translation tasks. DailyDia- log comprises multi-turn dialogues centered around daily life topics. The detailed statistics for these datasets are available in (Cheng et al., 2023b). Baselines. We carefully review the literature in- cluding a recent survey paper (Gao et al., 2023), and identify the following RAGs, namely Naive RAG (Ma et al., 2023), Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2023), and Selfmem (Cheng et al., 2023b), which correspond to three kinds of RAG techniques as described