such recognition- level detection models, we argue that establishing reasonable thought between textual and visual in- formation can further improve meme understand- ing with background knowledge for better harmful meme detection. Inspired by the success of LLMs for reason- ing at the cognition level with contextual back- ground knowledge (Wei et al., 2022; Kojima et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2022), we propose a novel ap- proach: MR.HARM, by leveraging the Multimodal reasoning knowledge distilled from LLMs for Harmful meme detection. To this end, we first prompt LLMs for abductive reasoning, and then propose a two-stage generative framework based on smaller language models to learn reasonable thoughts from LLMs for better multimodal fusion and lightweight fine-tuning. More specifically, we incorporate the meme text and image into a two- stage training paradigm: 1) Reasoning Distillation: In the first stage, we fine-tune our smaller language models with the interaction of language and vision features to distill multimodal reasoning knowledge from LLMs, which empowers our framework with the ability to conduct cognitive reasoning for the harmfulness prediction. 2) Harmfulness Inference: In the second stage, we exploit the fine-tuned small language models to infer the final harmfulness pre- diction. In this manner, we augment the harmful meme detection model with multimodal reasoning knowledge to unmask the implicit meaning hidden in holistic multimodal information from memes. We evaluate our proposed approach based on three public meme datasets. The results not only show that our method outperforms strong harmful meme detection baselines by a large margin, but also provide fine-grained analysis for interpreting how our approach works. Our contributions are summarized as follows in three folds: • To our best knowledge, we are the first to al- leviate the issue of superficial understanding for harmful meme detection by explicitly uti- lizing commonsense knowledge, from a fresh perspective on harnessing advanced LLMs.3 • We propose a novel generative framework to fine-tune smaller language models augmented with the multimodal reasoning knowledge dis- tilled from LLMs, which facilitates better mul- timodal fusion and lightweight fine-tuning for harmfulness prediction. • Extensive ablations on three meme datasets confirm that our method could yield superior 3Our code is available at https://github.com/ HKBUNLP/Mr.Harm-EMNLP2023 performance than state-of-the-art baselines for the harmful meme detection task. 2 Related Work 2.1 Harmful Meme Detection Harmful meme detection is a rapidly growing area in the research community, driven by the recent availability of large meme benchmarks (Kiela et al., 2019; Suryawanshi et al., 2020; Pramanick et al., 2021a). The Hateful Memes Challenge organized by Facebook (Kiela et al., 2020) further encour- aged researchers to develop solutions for detecting harmful memes in hate speech (Das et al., 2020). More recently, Pramanick et al. (2021a) firstly de- fined the harmful meme concept and demonstrated its dependence on contextual factors. The com- plex nature of memes, which often rely on multiple modalities, makes them challenging and struggle to yield good performance only using unimodal detec- tion methods (Simonyan and Zisserman, 2014; He et al., 2016; Devlin et al., 2019). Therefore, recent