gaps be- tween them. To alleviate this problem, we propose a simple query expansion method. At the first iteration (t = 1), we use the original question q as the query. At iteration t (t > 1), we concatenate the original question q and the document gener- ated yt−1 in the last iteration as the new query qt = [q; yt−1]. Then, we utilize a pre-trained dense retriever to retrieve top-k documents, which are denoted as Rt = {d}. Given an input question q, the retriever aims to retrieve a small set of documents from a corpus D = {di}|D| i=1 that are relevant to q. Following prior work [14], we use a dense retriever based on the dual encoder architecture, where an en- coder is used to encode both the input context q and the docu- ment d. Specifically, the encoder maps each document d ∈D to an embedding E(d) by taking the mean pooling of the last hidden representation over the tokens in d. At query time, the same encoder is applied to the input context q to obtain a query embedding E(q). The similarity between the query em- bedding and the document embedding is computed by their cosine similarity: s(d, q) = cos(E(d), E(q)). The top-k doc- uments that have the highest similarity scores are retrieved. Question: What is the date of birth of Emilie Hegh Arntzen's mother? Retrieval: Generation: Retrieval: Generation: Retrieval: Generation: Iteration 1 Iteration 2 Iteration 3 infobox name: Emilie Hegh Arntzen ; caption: Hegh Arntzen in 2018 ; birth_date: January 1, 1994 ; birth_place: Skien, Norway ; nationality: Norwegian ; Emilie Hegh Arntzen was born on January 1, 1994 in Skien, Norway. Her mother is unknown. Camilla Marie Gjersem was born together with a twin sister, Anne Line, on 6 January 1994 in Hønefoss, Norway. Their mother, Perlina Bangug, is a Filipina from Ilagan, Isabela, and their father, Petter Gjersem, a Norwegian from Raufoss. Camilla Gjersem is a law student at the University of Oslo. Hanne Hegh (born 19 January 1960) is a Norwegian handball player. She played 220 matches for the Norwegian national handball team between 1978 and 1992. She is the mother of Emilie Hegh Arntzen. infobox name: Hanne Hegh ; caption: Hanne Hegh 2008 ; nationality: Norwegian ; birth_date: April 27, 1960 ; birth_place: Oslo, Norway ; Hanne Hegh was born on April 27, 1960 in Oslo, Norway. She is the mother of Emilie Hegh Arntzen, who was born on January 1, 1994 in Skien, Norway. Fig. 2: Iterative retrieval-generation synergy framework con- tains two steps in each iteration: (1) generation augmented retrieval (GAR): utilize the output of the previous iteration to expand the query to help retrieve more relevant documents; (2) retrieval augmented generation (RAG): utilize retrieved documents to generate new documents to answer questions. We only show three iterations in this figure for brevity. Solid arrows indicate RAG within an iteration, and dashed arrows indicate GAR between iterations. Purple represents correct and useful information, and red represents wrong