the gradient estimator without altering its expectation. The Actor-Critic (AC) method [82] combines policy gradient techniques with value function approximation by integrating two components within a unified framework: the actor, which selects actions according to a parameterized policy 𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠), and the critic, which evaluates the policy using a parameterized value function 𝑉𝜙(𝑠) or action-value function 𝑄𝜙(𝑠,𝑎). At each timestep, the AC algorithm alternates between: (1) the critic estimating the advantage 𝐴(𝑠,𝑎) = 𝑄(𝑠,𝑎) −𝑉(𝑠) or the Temporal-Difference (TD) error 𝛿= 𝑟+ 𝛾𝑉(𝑠′) −𝑉(𝑠); and (2) the actor updating the policy parameters along the direction of the policy gradient, weighted by the low-variance estimate provided by the critic, i.e., using ∇𝜃log 𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠) · 𝐴(𝑠,𝑎) as the gradient. Trust Region Policy Optimization (TRPO) [143] aims to address the instability that can arise from large policy updates. TRPO formulates policy optimization as a constrained optimization problem: it maximizes the expected advantage under the old policy 𝜋old, while constraining the KL divergence between the new and old policies to remain below a threshold 𝛿. The formal objective is given by: max 𝜃𝐿(𝜃) = E𝑠∼𝜋old "∑︁ 𝑎 𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠) 𝜋old(𝑎|𝑠) 𝐴𝜋old (𝑠,𝑎) # , s.t. E𝑠∼𝜋old [𝐷KL(𝜋old(·|𝑠) ∥𝜋𝜃(·|𝑠))] ≤𝛿. (3) Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) [144] is a landmark innovation of traditional policy gradient algorithms in the era of deep reinforcement learning. The core contribution is a clipped surrogate objective that allows multi-step gradient Manuscript submitted to ACM 8 Keliang Liu et al. updates without policy collapse. Specifically, PPO uses the objective function: 𝐿PPO(𝜃) = E𝑡[min(𝑟𝑡(𝜃) ˆ𝐴𝑡, clip(𝑟𝑡(𝜃), 1 −𝜖, 1 + 𝜖) ˆ𝐴𝑡)]. (4) Here, 𝑟𝑡(𝜃) represents the probability ratio of the old and new policies on the action at time 𝑡, 𝜖is the threshold, and ˆ𝐴𝑡is the advantage estimate. This objective enables optimization according to the standard policy gradient when the magnitude of the policy change is within the threshold; once it exceeds the threshold, the gradient is weakened, thereby ensuring that a single update will not cause the policy to deviate too far from the original policy. In LLM fine-tuning, PPO optimizes parameters via reward scores with a value network baseline for efficient advantage estimation, but despite its stability and success in RLHF alignment, reasoning tasks face added memory/computation costs from the extra value network and instability in long sequences due to inaccurate value estimates. To address this issue, as well as the low learning efficiency in traditional RLHF settings where only one response is scored at a time, the DeepSeek team proposed Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) in DeepSeekMath [147]. The core idea of GRPO is to sample a set of outputs for each prompt and use the relative differences in intra-group feedback to guide policy updates. Specifically, for each question-answer pair, the behavioral policy of GRPO generates 𝐺different answers at once (forming a group). Then, each answer is assigned a reward value 𝑅𝑖through a reward model or predefined rules. Instead of training a separate value function to estimate a global baseline, GRPO adopted the intra-group average reward as the benchmark: it calculates