the need to fine-tune the underlying model. The runtime of the algorithm is examined in Section 3.5, where we showcase that the weights can be computed very fast in practice. We provide the source code of our implementation and experiments under https://github.com/schelterlabs/retrieval_importance. Datasets and tasks. For question answering, we leverage the WikiFact [15] dataset, in which questions are extracted from Wikipedia pages using relation pairs. The answer to each question in this dataset can be found on Wikipedia. For example, for the relation "author", a question is "The author of Nimmer on Copyright is ?". We filter out relations with less than 500 questions and use each of the remaining 70 relations as a separate downstream task. In data imputation, the task is to predict missing values of a relational table [17]. We experiment with two common benchmark datasets for this task: restaurant, where the city column of a table about restaurants must be imputed, and buy, where we have to impute the manufacturer column in a table about electronics products. For each experimental run on a question answering or data imputation task, we randomly split the dataset into validation dataset and test dataset with an equal number of tuples. We repeat this for 64 different random seeds, and report the mean accuracy. For the zero-shot baselines in the imputation tasks, we use the prompts suggested in [17]. Language models. We leverage the language model GPT-JT [27, 26] with 6 billion parameters, which we enhance with retrieval augmentation. As a reference, we compare this to the language model “text-davinci-003” (to which we refer to as GPT-3.5) from OpenAI’s commercial GPT-3.5 family [19]. For both language models, we generate predictions with zero-shot or few-shot prompting, without further fine-tuning. Retrieval augmentation. We leverage the Microsoft Bing search engine [16] to generate a retrieval corpus for each task. We create a query from each validation/test sample (e.g., the question to answer) and retrieve the first 50 websites together with their textual snippets provided by Bing as retrieved data points for the sample. We sort these data points according to the ranking score provided by Bing. We create a few-shot prompt from each retrieved data point, and generate an answer for the corresponding validation sample via GPT-JT. We decide on the final prediction via a majority vote using the generated answers from the top-K websites. Reweighting or pruning the retrieval corpus. In experiments which reweight or prune the retrieval corpus based on multilinear extension weights, we proceed as follows. We choose K = 10 and set the initial weight to 0.5. We group the retrieved websites by their domain name, and run the projected gradient descent algorithm from Section 2.4 for 50 iterations with a learning rate of 500 on the validation dataset to compute the optimal weights. Next, for reweighting, we compute the expectation of the accuracy on the test set by randomly sampling the retrieved data points 32 times based on the learned weights to form the retrieval corpus. For pruning, we