information relevant to the question in the biomedical domain, improve alignment, and reduce noise. We use this optimal setting for each of the experiments. 2 4 6 8 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 k (Retrieval Number) Accuracy (%) Accuracy Figure 10 Evaluation(accuracy(%)) on PubMedQA using continuous pre-training datasets of retrieving different Top-k docu- ments. Sci China Inf Sci 12 Prompt: Title: Abstract: Source Paper ID: PMID198207 What is the target of the drug Papain? Comment: Misunderstanding the papain as a drug, actually a enzyme. Lack of understanding of the overall knowledge hierarchy and specific related information. Is the proteolytic enzyme papain used in detergents? Does papain lose its activity when reacted with mercuric chloride? Does thiol attachment of meso-dimerization reagents to papain result in a highly stable dimer? Comment: In-depth understanding of enzyme structure and chemical modification mechanism shows extensive knowledge and overall knowledge hierarchy. Comment: Knowing that papain is an enzyme and its related features, but not asking more comprehensive questions due to lack of comprehensive knowledge hierarchy Comment: Based on the overall knowledge framework, understanding the application of papain, but ignoring the relevant information of papain, such as dimerization of papain. user:Please analyze the information in the title and context in the field of biomedical and generate a question for it: Title: Context: (Best) (Good) (Bad) (Good) 「{Title}」 「{Context}」 Dimerization of papain induced by mercuric chloride and a bifunctional organic mercurial. The bifunctional mercurial meso 1,4 bis(acetatomercuri) 2,3 diethoxybutane and mercuric chloride are capable of dimerizing papain, …… Figure 11 A case study comparing the generated questions under different experimental settings in the ablation study. 4.5 Case Study of Generated Corpus From the specific cases illustrated in Figure 11, it is evident that the model can recognize ”activity” in relation to papain’s function as an enzyme, demonstrating a general understanding facilitated by domain cues. However, without comprehensive and structured biomedical knowledge, the model still exhibits limitations in generating integrative questions that require a deeper or more holistic perspective. Performance differences under the question-only inference setting further highlight these shortcomings. In particular, when the embedding model is not fine-tuned on biomedical data (i.e., using a general- purpose embedding), the model struggles to capture question-specific nuances, resulting in significantly reduced performance when relevant context is unavailable. Our case analysis also reveals the pivotal role of the MeSH-based knowledge hierarchy. When MeSH guidance is present, the model is able to correctly interpret papain as a ”proteolytic enzyme” within the broader biomedical context. However, the absence of fine-grained, domain-specific knowledge—especially when leveraging only general LLMs or embeddings—leads to missed opportunities in question generation, such as failing to inquire about detailed aspects like enzyme activity or dimerization. These findings underscore the necessity of integrating both structured biomedical ontologies (e.g., MeSH) and domain-adapted retrieval mechanisms in our multi- agent framework. Only through this combination can the model attain both the breadth and depth required for high-quality, knowledge-rich biomedical question generation and evaluation. 4.6 Scaling Law of Dataset Distillation We conducted experiments using