RAG system if the generator is consistently able to answer questions without relying on the retrieved context. We already observe something similar with Llama, where the generator can answer several queries successfully without any provided con- text, but refuses to answer under the presence of irrelevant queries (Appendix C). Both approaches present significant trade-offs, highlighting the difficulty of defending against our attack without compromising either the system’s performance or its utility. 8 Conclusion In this work, we introduced Interrogation Attack (IA), a member- ship inference attack targeting Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. Unlike prior methods, IA leverages natural, topic- specific queries that remain undetectable by existing defense mech- anisms while maintaining high effectiveness. Through extensive experiments across diverse datasets and RAG configurations, we demonstrated the robustness of our attack, achieving superior infer- ence performance with minimal cost and low detection rates. Our analysis highlights the vulnerabilities inherent in RAG systems, emphasizing the need for more sophisticated defenses that balance security and utility Additionally, our exploration of failure cases 13 provides valuable insights into the limitations of both RAG sys- tems and membership inference attacks, paving the way for future research on privacy-preserving retrieval systems. Future Directions. In this work, we proposed a new black-box MIA against RAG systems, focusing on both attack success and detectability. While our attack consistently demonstrates high AUC scores across all settings and high TPR@low FPR in most cases, there are instances where its TPR is lower than one of the baselines. This indicates room for further improvement. Additionally, we evaluated our attack in a realistic setting where the RAG system rewrites the input query. Other variations of RAG systems, which involve different forms of input modification, remain unexplored. Extending evaluations to such settings would provide a broader understanding of the attack’s effectiveness and robustness. Acknowledgments This work has been supported by the NSF grants CNS-2247484 and CNS-2131910, as well as by the NAIRR 240392. References [1] Marah Abdin, Jyoti Aneja, Harkirat Behl, Sébastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Suriya Gunasekar, Michael Harrison, Russell J Hewett, Mojan Javaheripi, Piero Kauff- mann, et al. 2024. Phi-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.08905 (2024). [2] Maya Anderson, Guy Amit, and Abigail Goldsteen. 2024. Is My Data in Your Retrieval Database? Membership Inference Attacks Against Retrieval Augmented Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20446 (2024). [3] Alina Beck. 2025. Raising the bar for RAG excellence: query rewriting and new semantic ranker. https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azure-ai-services- blog/raising-the-bar-for-rag-excellence-query-rewriting-and-new-semantic- ranker/4302729/. Accessed: 2025-01-07. [4] Nicholas Carlini, Steve Chien, Milad Nasr, Shuang Song, Andreas Terzis, and Florian Tramer. 2022. Membership inference attacks from first principles. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 1897–1914. [5] Nicholas Carlini, Florian Tramer, Eric Wallace, Matthew Jagielski, Ariel Herbert- Voss, Katherine Lee, Adam Roberts, Tom Brown, Dawn Song, Ulfar Erlingsson, et al. 2021. Extracting training data from large language models. In USENIX Security Symposium. 2633–2650. [6] Harsh Chaudhari, Giorgio Severi, John Abascal, Matthew Jagielski, Christopher A Choquette-Choo, Milad Nasr, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Alina Oprea. 2024. Phan- tom: General Trigger Attacks on Retrieval Augmented Language Generation. arXiv