Scipy-M Tensor-M Ring Pony 89.2 93.3 100.0 100.0 86.8 91.1 95.6 96.8 Table 6: The accuracy of ChatGPT (left) and CodeLlama (right) in generating valid program inputs. Although LLMs cannot guarantee to write accurate test cases, their performance in generating only program inputs is exceptionally high. it is included in the prompt for LLM generation: (1). For web search content, include it until the maximum allowed length, e.g., 4,096, as we do not merge it without other knowledge sources; (2). For execution feedback, include the error message and the line of the code that leads to the error; (3). For code snippets, allocate a maximum length of 300 to them, as they are usually short; (4). For documenta- tion, always include other types of knowledge first, and include documentation to fill in the rest length. For example, if we want to include both documen- tation and code snippets as the knowledge source and the maximum context length is 4,096, we will allocate a maximum length of 300 to code snippets and a maximum length of 4,096-300-400=3,396 to the documentation. G Web Search As the artificially modified libraries are not avail- able online, we replace the documentation returned by web search with our modified version. In ad- dition, we heuristically update the content from web search based on our modifications, e.g., map keywords to the synonyms we use. In Figure 4, we present an example of the top-3 web search results returned by Google search to the query "In the programming language Pony, checks if the current element is less than the previous el- ement in the nums array". Due to the infrequent usage of the programming language Pony, there is little available resource online. The web search fails to identify the relevant knowledge piece. Even the specific instruction "programming language Pony" is given in the query, a guidance to solve the problem in C++ is included. In addition, the returned texts are long, complex, and diverse, mix- ing various types of knowledge sources including tutorials, blogs, and community Q&A discussions. LLMs may find it challenging to process and effec- tively utilize all of the information simultaneously. Finally, although we empirically remove some un- related information, e.g., remove the line that starts with ∗that is likely to be an irrelevant item list- ing, there is more that is hard to remove with just heuristics. This poses a great challenge to LLMs as they are burdened to filter the unrelated content and avoid getting distracted by it. Web content 1: # Minimum number of increment-other operations to make all array elements equal. __ Report We are given an array consisting of n elements. At each operation you can select any one element and increase rest of n-1 elements by 1. You have to make all elements equal performing such operation as many times you wish. Find the minimum number of operations needed for this. …… ## What kind of Experience do you want to share? [ Interview Experiences ](https://write.geeksforgeeks.org/posts- new?cid=e8fc46fe-75e7-4a4b-be3c-0c862d655ed0) [ Admission