improve certain applications and services, such as ASR and many downstream NLP tasks. Dataset For this task, we used the QADI and ADI datasets. QADI consists of a wide range of country-level Arabic dialects covering 18 different countries in the Middle East and North Africa re- gion (Abdelali et al., 2021). It consists of 540,590 tweets from 2,525 users. The ADI dataset is com- prised of 750 utterances obtained from a subset of ADI-515 and ADI-1716 test sets. We selected 50 utterances from each of the 14 countries in the Middle East and North Africa region along with MSA utterances. A.4 Sentiment, Stylistic and Emotion Analysis A.4.1 Sentiment Analysis Sentiment analysis has been an active research area and aims to analyze people’s sentiment or opin- ion toward entities such as topics, events, individ- uals, issues, services, products, organizations, and their attributes (Liu and Zhang, 2012; Zhang et al., 2018). This task involves classifying the content into sentiment labels such as positive, neutral, and negative. 13The Morocco Bible Society https://www.biblesociety.ma 14The United Bible Societies https://www.bible.com 15https://arabicspeech.org/adi_resources/mgb3 16https://arabicspeech.org/adi_resources/mgb5 Dataset ArSAS dataset consists of 21k Arabic tweets covering multiple topics that were collected, prepared, and annotated for six different classes of speech-act labels and four sentiment classes (El- madany et al., 2018). For the experiments, we used only sentiment labels from this dataset. A.4.2 Emotion Recognition Emotion recognition is the task of categorizing dif- ferent types of content (e.g., text, speech, and vi- sual) in different emotion labels (six basic emo- tions (Ekman, 1971) or more fine-grained cate- gories (Demszky et al., 2020)). Dataset For the emotion recognition tasks we used SemEval-2018 Task 1: Affect in Tweets (Mo- hammad et al., 2018). The task is defined as classi- fying a tweet as one or more of the eleven emotion labels, which is annotated as a multilabel (pres- ence/absence of 11 emotions) annotation setting. A.4.3 Stance Detection Stance is defined as the expression of the speaker’s view and judgment toward a given argument or statement (Biber and Finegan, 1988). Given that the social media platforms allow users to consume and disseminate information by expressing their views, enabling them to obtain instant feedback and explore others’ views, it is important to char- acterize a stance expressed in a given content. Au- tomatic stance detection also allows for assessing public opinion on social media, particularly on dif- ferent social and political issues such as abortion, climate change, and feminism, on which people ex- press supportive or opposing opinions (ALDayel and Magdy, 2021; Küçük and Can, 2020). The task involves “classification as the stance of the pro- ducer of a piece of text, towards a target as either one of the three classes: {support, against, neither} or {agree, disagree, discuss, or unrelated}” (Küçük and Can, 2020). Datasets Unified-FC dataset consists of claims collected from Verify.sy (false claims) and Reuters (true claims), which resulted in 422 claims. Based on these claims documents are collected using Google custom search API and filtered by com- puting claim-documents similarity (Baly et