the classification. The fi- nal German prompt (German zero-shot prompt, given in Appendix D, Table 8) emphasizes both the classification standard and the required output format, helping to reduce noise in the model’s predictions. Building on this, we implemented a few-shot prompting strategy (German few-shot prompt, see Table 8 in Appendix D). The prompt included the base instruction and incorporated an example for each CEFR level, demonstrating typical text characteristics at each level. Examples were carefully selected from previously misclassified texts to highlight common challenges and improve the model´s ability to distinguish between adjacent levels. By explicitly showing 4 Table 3: Hyperparameters used for fine-tuning the LLaMA-3-8B-Instruct model. Hyperparameter Value Training Settings Learning rate 2e-4 Number of epochs 5 (cutoff after 3) Batch size 1 Gradient accumulation steps 1 Warmup steps 400 Weight decay 0.001 Learning rate scheduler Linear LoRA Configuration LoRA rank (r) 32 LoRA alpha 32 LoRA dropout 0.03 LoRA target modules q proj, k proj, v proj, o proj, gate proj, up proj, down proj Bias none Gradient checkpointing True Use DoRA / RSLoRA False example texts at each level, the few-shot format provided additional context for the LLM and served as an implicit decision guide. 3.3 Fine-Tuning LLaMA-3 for CEFR Classification To complement our prompt-based experiments, we fine-tuned a Large Language Model specifically on the CEFR classification task. Fine-tuning allows a model to adapt more closely to domain-specific data and structure (Devlin et al., 2019). It can yield significant improvements in performance over prompt-based strategies. We selected the LLaMA-3-8B-Instruct model (Dubey et al., 2024) as the foundation for fine-tuning. This choice was driven by several factors: the model has a balanced size of 8 billion parameters, it is openly available, and has demonstrated strong capabilities in instruction following which is essential for adapting to our structured classification task. Moreover, the model has shown promising performance in German-language understanding. Fine-tuning follows a supervised learning approach, for which we used the dataset introduced in Section 3.1. The dataset was split into a training (154 samples per CEFR level) and a test set (25 samples per level), ensuring balanced representation across proficiency levels. Training samples were formatted following the LLaMA-3 input structure, with system prompts, user messages, and assistant responses clearly separated by special tokens (using the LLaMA- 3 tokenizer and paired with their corresponding CEFR labels). For fine-tuning, we used LoRA (Hu et al., 2021). Training was performed on a NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPU, with the process completing in approximately 20 minutes. Fine-tuning was conducted using the hyperparameters given in Table 3. 3.4 Probing-based Neural Classifier Large language models (LLMs) contain internal states which refers to representations that typically remain hidden during inference. Probing of internal states allows to trace the internal processing of the LLM and has shown to contain additional information (Ameisen et al., 2025; Lindsey et al., 2025). As one example, internal states have previously been applied in hallucination detection, where classifiers were trained using the internal representations as an input and were able to