Consider the given context and following statements, then determine whether they are supported by the information present in the context. Provide a brief explana- tion for each statement before arriving at the verdict (Yes/No). Provide a final verdict for each statement in order at the end in the given format. Do not deviate from the specified format. statement: [statement 1] ... statement: [statement n] The final faithfulness score, F, is then computed as F = |V | |S| , where |V | is the number of statements that were supported according to the LLM and |S| is the total number of statements. Answer relevance We say that the answer as(q) is relevant if it directly addresses the question in an appropriate way. In particular, our assessment of answer relevance does not take into account fac- tuality, but penalises cases where the answer is incomplete or where it contains redundant informa- tion. To estimate answer relevance, for the given answer as(q), we prompt the LLM to generate n potential questions qi based on as(q), as follows: Generate a question for the given answer. answer: [answer] We then obtain embeddings for all questions us- ing the text-embedding-ada-002 model, avail- able from the OpenAI API. For each qi, we cal- culate the similarity sim(q, qi) with the original question q, as the cosine between the correspond- ing embeddings. The answer relevance score, AR, for question q is then computed as: AR = 1 n n X i=1 sim(q, qi) (1) This metric evaluates how closely the generated answer aligns with the initial question or instruc- tion. Context relevance The context c(q) is consid- ered relevant to the extent that it exclusively con- tains information that is needed to answer the ques- tion. In particular, this metric aims to penalise the inclusion of redundant information. To estimate context relevance, given a question q and its con- text c(q), the LLM extracts a subset of sentences, Sext, from c(q) that are crucial to answer q, using the following prompt: Please extract relevant sentences from the provided context that can potentially help answer the following question. If no relevant sentences are found, or if you believe the question cannot be answered from the given context, return the phrase "Insufficient Information". While extract- ing candidate sentences you’re not al- lowed to make any changes to sentences from given context. The context relevance score is then computed as: CR = number of extracted sentences total number of sentences in c(q) (2) 4 The WikiEval Dataset To evaluate the proposed framework, we ideally need examples of question-context-answer triples which are annotated with human judgments. We can then verify to what extent our metrics agree with human assessments of faithfulness, answer relevance and context relevance. Since we are not aware of any publicly available datasets that could be used for this purpose, we created a new dataset, which we refer to as WikiEval4. To construct the dataset, we first selected 50 Wikipedia pages cov- ering events that have happened since