cost-effective, costing less than $20 per 2000 research papers using Claude 3 Haiku, and can be adapted with any fine-tuning of either the language or embedding models to further enhance the performance of end-to-end RAG pipelines. CCS CONCEPTS • Computing methodologies →Artificial intelligence; Natu- ral Language Processing; • Information systems →Informa- tion Retrieval. KEYWORDS Retrieval Augmented Generation, Large Language Model, Informa- tion Retrieval ACM Reference Format: Laurent Mombaerts, Terry Ding, Florian Felice, Jonathan Taws, Adi Baner- jee, and Tarik Borogovac. 2024. Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models. In Proceedings of August 25–26, 2024 (Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX 1 INTRODUCTION Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a standard technique used to augment Large Language Models (LLMs) with the capability to integrate contextually relevant, time-critical, or domain-specific information without altering the underlying model weights. This approach is particularly effective for knowledge-intensive tasks where proprietary or timely data is required to guide the language model’s response, and has become an attractive solution for reduc- ing model hallucinations and ensuring alignment with the latest and most relevant information for the task at hand. In practice, RAG pipelines consist of several modules structured around the tra- ditional retrieve-then-read framework [1]. Given a user question, a retriever is tasked with dynamically searching for related document chunks and providing them as context for the LLM to predict the answer, rather than relying solely on pre-trained model knowledge (also known as in-context learning). A simple, yet powerful and cost-effective retriever framework involves using a dual-encoder dense retrieval model to encode both the query and the documents individually into a high-dimensional vector space, and computing their inner product as a measure of similarity [2]. However, several challenges specifically hinder the quality of the knowledge augmented context. First, knowledge base documents may contain substantial noise, either intrinsic for the task at hand or as a result of the lack of standardization across the documents of interest (from various documents layouts or formats such as .pdf, .ppt, .wordx, etc.). Second, little to no human-labelled information or relevance labels are typically available to support the document chunking, embedding, and retrieval processes, making the overall retrieval problem a largely unsupervised approach and challenging to personalize for a given user. Third, chunking and separately encoding long documents pose a challenge in extracting relevant information for the retrieval models [3]. Indeed, document chunks do not conserve the semantic context of the entire document, and the larger the chunk, the less precise the context of the chunk is maintained for further retrieval. This makes the choice of docu- ment chunking strategy non-trivial for a given use-case, although critical for the quality of the subsequent steps due to potentially significant information loss. Fourth, user queries are typically short, ambiguous, may contain vocabulary mismatches, or are complex enough to require multiple documents to address, making it gener- ally difficult to precisely capture the user’s intents and subsequently identify the most appropriate documents