defined as a form of commu- nication that aims to influence the opinions or the actions of people towards a specific goal; this is achieved utilizing well-defined rhetorical and psy- chological devices (Dimitrov et al., 2021). In differ- ent communication channels, propaganda (persua- sion techniques) is conveyed through the use of di- verse techniques (Miller, 1939), which range from leveraging the emotions of the audience, such as using emotional technique or logical fallacies such as straw man (misrepresenting someone’s opinion), hidden ad-hominem fallacies, and red herring (pre- senting irrelevant data). Dataset The dataset used for this study consists of Arabic tweets (Alam et al., 2022b) posted by different news media from Arab countries such as Al Arabiya and Sky News Arabia from UAE, Al Jazeera, and Al Sharq from Qatar, and from five international Arabic news sources Al-Hurra News, BBC Arabic, CNN Arabic, France 24, and Russia Today. The final annotated dataset consists of 930 tweets. Alam et al. (2022b) formulated the task as a multilabel and multiclass span level classification task. For this study, we used the multilabel setup. A.7.7 Check-worthiness Detection Fact-checking is a time-consuming and complex process, and it often takes effort to determine whether a claim is important to check, irrespective of its potential to be misleading or not. Check- worthiness detection is the first step and a criti- cal component of fact-checking systems (Nakov et al., 2021) and the aim is to facilitate manual fact-checking efforts by prioritizing the claims for the fact-checkers. Research on check-worthiness includes check-worthiness detection/ranking from political speeches, debates, and social media posts (Nakov et al., 2022a; Shaar et al., 2021). A check- worthy claim is usually defined by its importance to the public and journalists, and whether it can cause harm to an individual, organization, and/or society. Dataset For this study, we used the Arabic subset of the dataset released with Task 1A (Arabic) of the CLEF2022 CheckThat Lab (Nakov et al., 2022c). The dataset consists of 4,121 annotated tweets. The Arabic tweets were collected using keywords re- lated to COVID-19, vaccines, and politics. A.7.8 Factuality Detection Fact-checking has emerged as an important re- search topic due to a large amount of fake news, ru- mors, and conspiracy theories that are spreading in different social media channels to manipulate peo- ple’s opinions or to influence the outcome of major events such as political elections (Darwish et al., 2017a; Baly et al., 2018b). While fact-checking has largely been done by manual fact-checker due to the reliability, however, that does not scale well as the enormous amount of information shared online every day. Therefore, an automatic fact-checking system is important and it has been used for fa- cilitating human fact-checker (Nakov et al., 2021). The task typically involves assessing the level of factual correctness in a news article, media outlets, or social media posts. The content is generally judged to be of high, low, or mixed factual cor- rectness, using seven-point Likert scale18,19 or just binary labels {yes, no} (Baly et al.,