• Whether there is a specified relationship between two entities; relationship type, strength, direction, evidence sentences. • Direct motives and results of a single interaction. • Evolution of the relationship over time. Layer 3 (Multi-Entity Event Layer) Answerable scope: • Event causality chain: background →trigger →process →result →impact (This event may not have been fully documented. The knowledge in this layer may only include a few parts of the causal chain, such as “role →process →result”). • Roles and conflicts of interest of each entity in the event. • Quantitative impact of the event on subsequent plot or storyline. Implicit Strategy Parsing Prompt: —Goal— -Initial query decomposition: 1.question: Consistent with the original question. 2.rewrite question: Without altering the original intention of the user, expand, clarify, structure and align the input query with entities, making it more convenient for downstream search engines or knowledge bases to retrieve, while 24 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory enhancing semantic integrity. • Provide context (For example, time, place, topic, etc.). • Entity alignment and period matching (If the entities in the query have specific names at different stages, then replace them with the original terms that match the corresponding stage). • Disambiguation and Reference Clarification (Replace vague references such as “it”, “this”, and “influence” with specific nouns to avoid ambiguity.). • Synonyms / Domain Terminology Expansion (Introduce synonyms, near-synonyms, and domain-specific terms to enhance the recall rate). 3.key entities: Extract nouns or noun phrases that have clear referential meanings from the query, such as people, places, organizations, events, technologies, concepts, etc. • The entity should be linkable (able to correspond to the entries in the knowledge base). • Provide all the aliases, abbreviations, names, titles, etc. of this entity at different stages (including obscure ones) to enhance the coverage of search results. • Output format: [Entity1 |Alias1 |Alias2, Entity2 |Alias3 |Alias4 |Alias5]. 4.keywords: Extract a multi-dimensional keyword set from the query, which is used to represent the core intention and retrieval direction of the user. 5.target layer: According to the characteristics of the query problem, combined with the information of the knowledge hypergraph architecture, predict which layer of the architecture the answer vertices related to the problem are located in (ranging from 1 to 3, type as Int). 6.matching score: This score (ranging from 1 to 5, type as Int) reflects the degree of relevance between the query answer and the knowledge at the target layer, as well as the complexity of integrating knowledge across different layers during the response. The detailed scoring criteria are as follows: • 5: Very High, the answer must be present in the target layer, and no other layer knowledge is needed; the query can almost be completely resolved within the target layer without cross-layer reference. Usually, it includes simple and isolated facts, superficial information, or macro themes (queries with macro themes almost only focus on the fourth layer). The knowledge at the target layer can provide about 95% to 100% of the content in