such as accent, speaking style, code- switching, environmental factors like channels, and background noise among others. Furthermore, the presence of language-related challenges, including complex morphology, unstandardized orthography, and a wide array of dialects as a primary mode of communication, adds a layer of complexity to the task. Therefore to properly benchmark Ara- bic ASR, we covered a wide range of domains encapsulating different speaking styles, dialects, and environments. For our study, we considered broadcast news, telephony, and meeting data for MSA, Egyptian, Moroccan Arabic, etc., in both monolingual and code-switching setups. Datasets MGB2 consists of 9.57 hours of multi-dialect speech data that was collected from Aljazeera TV programs and manually transcribed. The data con- sists of a mix of Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and various dialects, including Egyptian, Levantine, Gulf, and North African (Ali et al., 2016).23 MGB3 is a collection of 5.78 hours of multi- genre speech data in Egyptian dialect. The data was collected from YouTube videos and manually transcribed (Ali et al., 2017).24 MGB5 is a collection of 1.4 hours of speech data in Moroccan dialect. The data was collected from YouTube videos and manually transcribed (Ali et al., 2019).25 ESCWA.CS is a collection of 2.8 hours of speech code-switching corpus collected over two days of meetings of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for West Asia (ESCWA) in 2019 (Chowdhury et al., 2021).26 23https://arabicspeech.org/mgb2 24https://arabicspeech.org/mgb3 25https://arabicspeech.org/mgb5 26https://arabicspeech.org/escwa QASR.CS is a collection of 5.9 hours of code- switching extracted from the Arabic broadcast news data (QASR) to test the system for code- switching. The dataset also includes some in- stances where the switch is between Arabic and French, however, this type of instance are very rare occurrence (Mubarak et al., 2021b).27 DACS is a collection of ≈1.5 hours of broadcast speech designed to evaluate the performance of ASR for code-switching between MSA to Egyptian dialect and vice versa (Chowdhury et al., 2020c).28 CallHome Egyptian is a speech corpus of tele- phone conversations between native speakers of Egyptian Arabic. It consists of 20 unscripted tele- phone conversations, each of which lasts between 5-30 minutes (Kumar et al., 2014).29 A.10.2 Text to Speech Speech Synthesis a.k.a text to speech (TTS) helps users to get the written output easier and in some cases faster. Most state-of-the-art end-to-end TTS systems comprise three modules: text front-end, acoustic model, and vocoder. However, there is ongoing research to combine acoustic models and vocoder in a single neural network. Text front- end module normalizes input text by converting digits, symbols, abbreviations, and acronyms into full words, processing words with special sounds, borrowed words, etc. This task is challenging in Arabic due to missing diacritics in modern texts as explained in A.1.4. Therefore, the Arabic front- end part of the TTS is responsible for restoring the missing diacritics and text normalization. Dataset For MSA TTS, we create the first public test dataset, which comprises 30 sentences cover- ing different topics such as psychology, education, health, etc. The average length for each sentence is 8 words.