the trigger as a negative sample. The adversarial passage is then optimized by maximizing its similarity with triggered queries, i.e., Eq(qi ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤, while minimizing its similarity with normal queries, i.e., Eq(qi) · Ep(pa)⊤. This optimization is formulated as: Ladv = −Eq∼Q " log exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤) exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤) + P qi∈Q exp(Eq(qi) · Ep(pa)⊤) # (1) We use a gradient-based approach to solve the optimization problem in Equation 1 that approx- imates the effect of replacing a token using its gradient. We initialize the adversarial passage pa = [t1, t2, ..., tn] with the [MASK] tokens. At each step, we randomly select a token ti in pa and compute an approximation of the model output if replacing ti with another token t′ i. Adaptive COP. To address the challenge posed by a topic that typically has plenty of keyword triggers, we propose an adaptive generation method to create adversarial passages that can be effectively retrieved by these triggers simultaneously. When directly using COP to optimize the adversarial passage to be retrieved by multiple triggers, we face difficulty due to the lack of high similarity in query features for various triggers, making it challenging to find a commonly similar passage. A straightforward approach, as shown in Figure 3 (b), is to optimize a separate adversarial passage for each trigger by our COP. This method can guarantee a high attack success rate for each trigger. However, it significantly increases the poisoning ratio. Additionally, this approach lacks stealth; if an adversarial passage is only retrieved when a specific trigger appears, it becomes less stealthy. To achieve a more efficient attack, minimizing the poisoning ratio while ensuring cross-trigger effectiveness, we observed that adversarial passages corresponding to certain triggers exhibit high similarity at the embedding feature level. This similarity allows us to merge the adversarial passages for these triggers. Our methodology involves clustering the adversarial passages based on their embedding features using the k-means [42]. As illustrated in Figure 3 (c), adversarial passages [p1, p2, ..., pn] are clustered into m clusters such as [(p1 1, p2 1, ..., pc 1), ..., (p1 m, p2 m, ..., pc m)], where superscript c denotes the cluster center. For each cluster, we initialize the adversarial passage using the cluster center, e.g., pc j. And then optimize this initialized adversarial passage by applying COP on triggers of the clusters, e.g., Tj = {τ 1 j , τ 2 j , ..., τ c j }, by minimizing: Ladv, j = −Eq∼Q  log Eτ∼Tj h exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤) i Eτ∼Tj [exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤)] + P qi∈Q exp(Eq(qi) · Ep(pa)⊤)   (2) The Eτ∼Tj  exp(Eq(q ⊕τ) · Ep(pa)⊤)  is the average similarity between different trigger τ in T and the adversarial passage pa. The results are merged adversarial passages that work across clusters of triggers, maximizing the attack success rate while minimizing the number of inserted adversarial passages. This approach efficiently combines adversarial passages for similar triggers, leading to