to further breaking down the characters to letters. In fact, in many cases dealing with Korean letters, LLMs failed even to generate outputs that are compatible for com- puting accuracy. As discussed in Sec A.1, this likely has to with the unique featural structure of Korean language, and suggests that it might require a different approach to 10 Large Language Models Lack Understanding of Character Composition of Words Table 8. Example failure cases. English translation is provided for each prompt. Bold letters indicate the correct answers from the model. N/A indicates that the model was not able to provide compatible outputs. Language Prompt GPT4 Mistral Gemini English Remove all occurrences of the character i Artiﬁcial intelligence will revolutionize various ﬁelds. (answer: Artfcal ntellgence wll revolutonze varous felds.) artfcal ntellgence wll revolutonze varous ﬁelds. artfcal ntellgence wll revolutonze varous felds. artfcial ntellgence wll revolutonze varous felds. Chinese 以下文本中的字符“的”出现了多少次？ 北京的故宫是中国历史文化的重要遗产之一。 Find all characters with letter 的(answer: 2) 2 4 2 Korean (character) ᄃ ᅡᄋ ᅳ ᆷᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄌ ᅡ ᆼᄋ ᅦᄂ ᅡᄋ ᅩᄂ ᅳ ᆫᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄌ ᅡ“ᄃ ᅡ”ᄅ ᅳ ᆯᄆ ᅩᄃ ᅮ“ᄋ ᅡ”ᄅ ᅩᄇ ᅡᄁ ᅮᄉ ᅵᄋ ᅩ: ᄒ ᅡ ᆫᄀ ᅮ ᆨᄋ ᅴᄌ ᅥ ᆫᄐ ᅩ ᆼᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄒ ᅪᄂ ᅳ ᆫᄃ ᅡᄋ ᅣ ᆼᄒ ᅡᄀ ᅩᄋ ᅡᄅ ᅳ ᆷᄃ ᅡ ᆸᄃ ᅡ. Replace all occurrences of ᄃ ᅡwith ᄋ ᅡ (answer: ᄒ ᅡ ᆫᄀ ᅮ ᆨᄋ ᅴᄌ ᅥ ᆫᄐ ᅩ ᆼᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄒ ᅪᄂ ᅳ ᆫᄋ ᅡᄋ ᅣ ᆼᄒ ᅡᄀ ᅩᄋ ᅡᄅ ᅳ ᆷᄃ ᅡ ᆸᄋ ᅡ.) ᄋ ᅡᄋ ᅡᄋ ᅡᄋ ᅴ ᄌ ᅥ ᆫᄐ ᅩ ᆼᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄒ ᅪᄋ ᅡᄂ ᅳ ᆫ ᄃ ᅡᄋ ᅣ ᆼᄒ ᅡᄀ ᅩ ᄋ ᅡᄅ ᅳ ᆷᄃ ᅡ ᆸᄃ ᅡ. ᄒ ᅡ ᆫᄀ ᅮ ᆨᄋ ᅴ ᄌ ᅥ ᆫᄐ ᅩ ᆼᄆ ᅮ ᆫᄒ ᅪᄂ ᅳ ᆫ ᄋ ᅡᄃ ᅡᄋ ᅣ ᆼᄒ ᅡᄀ ᅩ ᄋ ᅡᄅ ᅳ ᆷᄃ ᅡ ᆸᄃ ᅡ. N/A Korean (letter) ᄃ ᅡᄋ ᅳ ᆷᄀ ᅳ ᆯᄋ ᅦᄉ ᅥㄴᄋ ᅵᄃ ᅳ ᆯᄋ ᅥᄀ ᅡ ᆫᄀ ᅳ ᆯᄌ ᅡᄅ ᅳ ᆯᄆ ᅩᄃ ᅮᄎ ᅡ ᆽᄋ ᅳᄉ ᅵᄋ ᅩ: ᄋ ᅡ ᆫᄂ ᅧ ᆼᄒ ᅡᄉ ᅦᄋ ᅭᄇ ᅡ ᆫᄀ ᅡ ᆸᄉ ᅳ ᆸᄂ ᅵᄃ ᅡ Find all characters with letter ㄴ(answer:ᄋ ᅡ ᆫ,ᄂ ᅧ ᆼ,ᄇ ᅡ ᆫ,ᄂ ᅵ) ᄋ ᅡ ᆫ,ᄇ ᅡ ᆫ,ᄀ ᅡ ᆸ,ᄉ ᅳ ᆸ N/A N/A Japanese 次の文章で後ろから３番目の文字は何ですか： 吾輩は猫である What is the third character from the end (answer:で) あ で 猫 account for such irregular systems. Japanese displays simi- larly lower scores, afﬁrming the complexity of dealing with mixed character system of both logographic and phonetic characters. A.2.3. DISCUSSION While LLMs’ understanding of character composition re- mains itself an area to be further explored regardless of the language, the results of our experiments seem to fur- ther highlight the signiﬁcant impact of language-speciﬁc characteristics on the performance. Multilingual LLMs in general encounter challenges such as uneven distribution of languages in training corpora, or decline in performance for low-resource languages. A popular approach to deal with this problem has been to employ parameter tuning align- ment at multiple stages (Qin et