of artificial intelligence-assisted CAD. Chen et al. [24] combined SFT with GRPO and introduce a rule-based reward tailored to scene graph structures, improving the structural validity, relationship recall, and long-tail category performance of MLLMs in end-to-end scene graph generation. ARMed [111] explored the application of RLVR techniques in the domain of medical imaging. 3D-R1 [67] enhanced the reasoning and generalization capabilities of 3D VLM by combining cold-start initialization with high-quality CoT datasets, RL–based training, and a dynamic view selection strategy. Huang et al. [66] proposed Hint-GRPO to address GRPO’s low data utilization—where models struggle to gain positive updates from hard samples—and text bias—where models ignore images and rely only on text—by supplying partial correct reasoning steps as hints and leveraging prediction differences between inputs with and without image conditions to enforce visual grounding. SRPO [164] explored the problem that MLLMs still lag significantly behind unimodal text models in complex problems that require explicit self-reflection and correction. Wang et al. [173] extended the successful pattern of RL in mathematical reasoning and code generation to the field of visual perception by injecting subtle synthetic visual hallucinations into manually written image description paragraphs and training VLMs to locate these errors. T2I-R1 [73] took the lead in introducing RLVR strategies into the field of visual generation, proposing a new text-to-image generation model based on a two-level CoT reasoning framework and reinforcement learning, which even surpassed FLUX.1 on benchmarks. DanceGRPO [201] is the first unified framework that adapts GRPO to visual generation paradigms. It enables the universal deployment of a single reinforcement learning algorithm across diffusion models and rectified flows generative paradigms; text-to-image, text-to-video, and image-to-video tasks; foundation models such as Stable Diffusion, HunyuanVideo, FLUX, and SkyReels-I2V; and reward models including image/video aesthetics, text-image alignment, video motion quality, and binary reward. Xu et al. [200] explored planning through visual representations completely independent of text, confirming that pure visual planning can serve as a feasible alternative to language-based reasoning. Although RL has already been applied to multimodal reasoning, its reasoning process is still mainly limited to text forms [208]. There is still substantial room for exploration in approaches that deeply integrate multimodal information and external tools. GPT o3 [127] has demonstrated a strong ability to reason by relying on visual cues, setting off a new upsurge in visual reasoning research, with researchers scrambling to explore methods to achieve GPT o3-style visual reasoning. DeepEyes [238] proposed an interleaved multimodal reasoning paradigm, where the model decides at each step whether to continue reasoning with text or call tools to crop regions of the image as historical context, and proceeds with reasoning in this way to form an interleaved reasoning sequence. Several methods have been proposed to address the limitation that models often struggle to effectively anchor their reasoning on visual cues. For instance, GThinker [220] introduced CueRethinking, which anchors the inference process to visual cues and resolves inconsistencies through iterative cue reinterpretation. GLM-4.1V-Thinking [59] proposed a unified multimodal reasoning framework that integrates multi-source pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, and cross-task