answer. LLMs’ OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco. OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. Retrieval OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco. OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco. OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. Knowledge Knowledge Knowledge LLMs’ LLMs’ More concise More concise, accurate, and complete More concise, accurate, and complete Positive Information Gain Refinement Refinement Refinement Figure 1: We consider the role of LLMs in RAG as “Information Refiner” that can generate more concise, accurate, and complete texts than the input retrieved texts. In this way, LLM can consistently make RAG system produce positive information gain. and mitigate issues such as hallucination (Peng et al., 2023; Shi et al., 2023; Ren et al., 2023). Despite the improved performance of retrieval models, the internet continues to be inundated with fake news, rumors, and fragmented, noisy informa- tion, posing challenges for retrieval models to reli- ably identify and shield against such content (Sun et al., 2022; Thakur et al., 2021). Consequently, not all retrieved texts are beneficial, necessitating that LLMs determine how to judiciously utilize them. However, pre-training tasks do not explicitly en- able LLMs to learn how to utilize the retrieved texts with varied quality for generation. For a question and its retrieved texts as input sequence, RAG aims to minimize the negative log-likelihood (NLL) of sub-sequence (question and generated answer) by referring to the retrieved texts. However, main- stream pre-training for LLMs with decoder-only architecture is language modeling based on the pre- fix (Radford et al., 2018; Touvron et al., 2023a), the training objective aims to minimize the neg- ative log-likelihood (NLL) of the entire input se- quence (retrieved texts, question, and generated answer) (Mikolov et al., 2012). This gap causes arXiv:2402.18150v2 [cs.CL] 12 Jun 2024 LLMs to only regard the input retrieved texts as a part of the prefix for language modeling rather than additional reference, which leads to the fol- lowing problems. Firstly, for the long and complex retrieved texts, LLMs struggle to extract the correct answers (Deng et al., 2023) accurately. Secondly, in situations where the retrieved texts cannot ad- dress the task, LLMs lack the capability to integrate the knowledge within model parameters with the retrieved texts to generate improved texts. Thirdly, LLMs are susceptible to incorrect and noisy infor- mation in retrieved texts, posing a risk of being misled (Chen et al., 2023; Yoran et al., 2023). To solve above problems, some previous meth- ods explore strategies for how or when to perform retrieval for LLMs by prompt techniques (Press et al., 2023; Khattab et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2023; Asai et al., 2023). However, prompt cannot materi- ally change the ability of LLMs to utilize retrieved texts because model parameters are not updated for this ability. Some methods fine-tune LLMs on the constructed RAG data for a specific task such as QA (Yoran et al., 2023; Yu et al.,