multi-hop QA when the model fails to answer correctly: insufficient knowledge, con- flicting knowledge, and erroneous reasoning. In subsequent sections, we will delve deeper into how metacognitive strategies can help overcome these challenges. 4 METACOGNITIVE RAG Retrieval augmentation has become one of the primary methods to mitigate the hallucination issues in LLMs. However, existing research on retrieval-augmented LLMs are bound by predefined reasoning steps, lacking the ability to diagnose specific errors in their responses. Motivated by this observation, in this section, we introduces a metacognitive retrieval-augmented generation frame- work. This approach taps into the principles of metacognition, allowing for introspection of the cognitive process. By doing so, it identifies shortcomings in the reasoning process and aims to enhance the accuracy of answer derivation. The overall framework of MetaRAG is depicted in Figure 3. MetaRAG comprises two spaces: the cognition space and the metacog- nition space. The former functions as a QA system, while the latter serves as both an evaluator and critic, introspecting the reasoning process. This metacognition space primarily encompasses three main phases: (1) Monitoring; (2) Evaluating; (3) Planning. The following sections introduce the details of these three steps. 4.1 Monitoring: Assessing Answer Satisfaction The primary function of monitoring is to keep track of one’s cogni- tive processes. In human brain, not all cognitive activities necessar- ily trigger metacognitive evaluating [19]. Typically, only when the problem becomes so complex that the correctness of the cognitive process cannot be guaranteed, it becomes necessary to “think thrice before answering”. In multi-hop QA tasks, due to the complexity of the task or insufficient knowledge, retrieval-augmented LLMs some- times fail to reason out the correct answer. The role of monitoring WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, & Zhicheng Dou Cognition Space Metacognition Space Monitoring Evaluating Suggestion Question Corpus Expert Model Activate Evaluating I √ √ × × E √ × √ × Check reasoning Generate New Query Discard references Rely on references NLI Planning NLI Model Internal External Common errors ➢ Incomplete reasoning ➢ Answer redundance ➢ Ambiguity context understanding ➢ ··· Declarative knowledge Procedural knowledge √ √ × × × √ √ × Search results: [1]: ... [2]: ... [3]: ... Retrieve Answer Cognition Metacognition External knowledge Please try to provide an answer by considering multiple steps reasoning This answer might have made an error in “Incomplete reasoning” Act as a Question Answering System Act as an Evaluator & Critic System Internal External Conflict | Consistency Reasoning ① ② ③ Figure 3: The overall architecture of MetaRAG. The green part is the cognition space, focusing on reasoning the answer for a given question. In contrast, the blue part is the metacognition space, responsible for monitoring, evaluating, and planning. is to assess the satisfaction of the answer, which then determines whether to activate the metacognitive evaluating phase. To investigate the conditions under which an answer is deemed satisfactory, we hypothesize that an answer is highly plausible when the cognition of the LLM aligns with