reasoning with LLMs to alleviate the hallucination issue during Intermediate Reasoning: the meme contains a political message that promotes a political agenda. the text suggests that the coronavirus is nothing compared to windmill cancer, which is a harmful and offensive message. the image of a politician in a suit and tie, possibly related to the inauguration of president trump, further reinforces the harmful message. the use of a political message in this context could be seen as insensitive and disrespectful to those who have been affected by the pandemic. Meme text: DON'T WORRY, AMERICA. THE CORONAVIRUS IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WINDMILL CANCER! Intermediate Reasoning: the text in the meme contains a derogatory and offensive statement "goat humper" towards a particular group of Muslim individuals, associated with an image of a Muslim man praying in front of a mosque, which is highly offensive and discriminatory. The phrase "looks like a bunch of pigs just walked over your grave" can be interpreted as a disrespectful reference to the Muslim practice of abstaining from pork. Meme text: it's the goat humper, looks like a bunch of pigs just walked over your grave Intermediate Reasoning: based on the text and image it appears that the meme is making an inflammatory statement about the democrat party. the image shows a close up of a confederate flag with stars, which could be interpreted as an implication of the democrat party. the text also mentions the oldest haté group in the united states, which could be interpreted as a reference to the democrat party being associated with racism and white supremacy. Meme text: THE DEMOCRAT PARTY AMERIÇAS OLDEST HATÉ GROUP (a) (b) (c) Figure 3: Examples of correctly predicted harmful memes in (a) Harm-C, (b) Harm-P, and (c) FHM dataset. deductive reasoning for harmfulness prediction. 4.4 Cognition-view Reasoning Analysis Note that our smaller language model is explicitly trained in the Reasoning Distillation stage for ra- tionale generation to distill multimodal reasoning knowledge from LLMs. Although intermediate reasoning is not the final target output for harmful meme detection, after the first fine-tuning stage, we elicit reasonable thoughts from our smaller lan- guage model with the test samples as input, to understand the cognition view of our proposed MR.HARM on the test meme samples more trans- parently and intuitively, as exemplified in Figure 3. From the visualized intermediate reasoning, we observe that 1) our model could understand the multimodal information related to the meme text (in green) and image (in blue) with commonsense knowledge. For example, in Figure 3(a), the rec- ognized “politician” in the image could be related to “president trump”, which could be linked to the “AMERICA” in the text; in Figure 3(b), the recognized “flag” in the image could be cognized to satire “the democrat party” in the text; and in terms of Figure 3(c), the “goat humper” and “pigs” in the text could be associated with the attacks to “a Muslim man” recognized in the image. 2) Furthermore, our model learns to cognize the in-