conflicting knowledge and complete knowledge is relatively marginal. In contrast to these two methods, our proposed MetaRAG significantly boosts the ac- curacy of reasoning in these two scenarios. This achievement is primarily attributed to MetaRAG’s meticulous analysis of conflicts between internal and external knowledge and common error types through a metacognitive process, thereby optimizing the model’s reasoning process in a targeted manner. 6.5 Exploration of the Number of Iterations In the context of MetaRAG, monitoring is crucial in determining whether to proceed to the next stage of the metacognitive process. It’s important to emphasize that the results are significantly influ- enced by the maximum number of iterations. To identify the ideal Insufficient knowledge Conflicting knowledge Sufficient knowledge Challenges During Reasoning 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 Accuracy Standard RAG ReAct Reflecxion MetaRAG Figure 5: Performance of the planning strategy under each knowledge conditions: insufficient, conflicting, sufficient. number, we systematically increase the maximum iteration count from 1 to 6, while closely observing how the accuracy changes. As depicted in Figure 4(b), the accuracy of MetaRAG improves progressively as the maximum iteration count increases. However, once the iteration count reaches 5, the performance peaks, indi- cating that deeper metacognitive reflection can indeed enhance inference accuracy. Nevertheless, excessively increasing the num- ber of reflection rounds leads to a slight decline in results. This could be attributed to the model’s diminishing ability to extract more useful information or suggestions through the metacognitive mechanism. An intriguing observation is a minor accuracy peak at an iteration count of 2. This phenomenon primarily arises from the characteristics of the 2WikiMultihopQA dataset, where the major- ity of questions require references from two sources. Two rounds of metacognitive reflection prove sufficient to gather the necessary knowledge for these questions. Beyond that, additional rounds of reflection tend to introduce noise, resulting in fluctuating results. 7 CONCLUSION In this paper, we proposed MetaRAG, a novel framework combin- ing the retrieval-augmented LLMs process with human-inspired metacognition to enhance multi-hop reasoning. Through a struc- tured metacognitive process involving monitoring, evaluating, and planning stages, MetaRAG facilitates model awareness on its own reasoning process. This empowers the model to identify the suf- ficiency of knowledge and potential mistakes during reasoning. Experimental results on two multi-hop QA datasets demonstrated the superior performance of MetaRAG over existing baselines. In the future, we aspire to incorporate more human cognitive approaches, including emotional understanding, intuition, and cultural aware- ness, into the reasoning process of LLM. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Zheng Liu and Zhicheng Dou are the corresponding authors. This work was supported by National Key R&D Program of China No. 2022ZD0120103, National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 62272467, Beijing Natural Science Foundation No. L233008, the fund for building world-class universities (disciplines) of Renmin University of China, Public Computing Cloud, Renmin University of China. The work was partially done at the Engineering Research Center of Next-Generation Intelligent Search and Recommendation, Ministry of Education, and Beijing Key Laboratory of Big Data Management and Analysis Methods. Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024,