the literature review coherent and as per IEEE standards. Please mention the first author’s name and paper title. Don’t write like this “Literature Review of. . . ”.” Figure 6: Pipeline using LLM The next step is to implement a system pipeline by using the LLM to generate a literature review segment automatically. The system takes PDFs of multiple papers as input. It uses the PYPDF2 library to extract the entire text of each PDF. Then it creates a new thread with the extracted text as a message and submits the thread to the assistant with the extracted text as a query. Then the response from the assistant is retrieved and the outputs of each paper are merged for the final literature review segment. The system pipeline overview of the LLM is given in Figure 6. E. The Final System Tool The final system is implemented using the Large Language Model: GPT-3.5-TURBO-0125 as the backend. An aesthetic and simple user interface is created where the user can easily upload multiple research articles or PDF files. The user has to press the ”Browse files” button and then select the files to upload. Then the system loads the research papers and within a few seconds, it produces the literature review segment automatically. It individually processes each paper and pro- duces output. The loading screen and processing file numbers indicate the progress level and the number of processed papers. At the end of the literature review, the UI shows ”Done” text to indicate the completion of the task. The user interface of the system is given in Figure 7 Figure 7: The Preview of the System UI IV. SYSTEM EVALUATION The ROUGE scores are used for the evaluation in this research. The evaluation is done based on the test data of the selected dataset. ROUGE (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation) is a set of metrics used for evaluating the quality of machine-generated summaries by comparing them to reference summaries. The used ROUGE metrics are: • ROUGE-N (precision, recall, and F1 score for n-gram overlaps), • ROUGE-L (measuring longest common subsequence) • ROUGE-Lsum (ROUGE-Longest for summary level evaluation) A. Evaluation of Frequency-Based spaCy The spaCy-based model was evaluated on the test data utilizing the ROUGE scores. The results are stated in Table I. Table I: ROUGE Scores for spaCy ROUGE-1 0.257 ROUGE-2 0.055 ROUGE-L 0.144 ROUGE-L SUM 0.146 B. Evaluation of Transformer T5 The transformer-based model was evaluated on the test data utilizing the ROUGE scores. The results are stated in Table II. Table II: ROUGE Scores for T5 ROUGE-1 0.268 ROUGE-2 0.115 ROUGE-L 0.204 ROUGE-L SUM 0.204 C. Evaluation of Large Language Model: GPT-3.5-TURBO- 0125 The LLM-based model was evaluated on the test data utilizing the ROUGE scores. The results are stated in Table III. Table III: ROUGE Scores for LLM ROUGE-1 0.364 ROUGE-2 0.123 ROUGE-L 0.181 ROUGE-L SUM 0.182 D. Comparison of Multiple Approaches The comparison between all three approaches is provided in Table IV. Table IV: Comparison of Rouge Scores T5