a certain error rate (p-value), such that the union of error rates over parameter space is within the uncertainty budget δ. The Bonferroni correction in Prop. 2 adopts an even partition of the uncertainty budget, while we can have a dynamic partition algorithm based on graph search (see App. D.2). Therefore, Risk Guarantee (1) and (2) are connected by the duality between p-values and confidence intervals (Bates et al., 2021). We mainly focus on the conformal analysis of Risk Guarantee (1) in the following, and the results can be extrapolated to Risk Guarantee (2) directly. We defer the proofs of Props. 1 and 2 to App. D. Advance of C-RAG compared to conformal controlling methods (Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et al., 2021; 2022) Existing conformal risk analysis assumes that test and calibration samples come from the same distribution, which allows statistical risk predictions for test samples based on the calibration data. While the conformal gen- eration risk bounds are previously studied (Angelopoulos et al., 2022; Farinhas et al., 2023b), the scope is limited to the monotonic risk functions. In this work, we extend the scope to provide the first conformal generation risk analysis under test-time distribution shifts for general bounded risk functions in Sec. 6. In addition, we propose a constrained RAG generation protocol for enhanced effectiveness and efficiency of risk controlling for LLM generations, as illus- trated in Sec. 4. We also prove that RAG achieves a lower conformal generation risk than vanilla LLMs under scenar- ios with or without distribution shifts in Thms. 1 and 3. 5. Theoretical analysis of C-RAG In this section, we prove that RAG model achieves a lower conformal generation risk compared to LLMs without re- trievals and its benefits are correlated with the quality of the retrieval model and transformer. We provide the structure of our theoretical analysis and conclusions in Fig. 2. Proposition 2: under 𝜌-Hellinger distance distribution shift, 𝑋! "#$ contain a high number (function of 𝜌) of non-trivial examples (𝑑%, Φ&)-transformer (Definition 2) Calibration set 𝑋! !'( )!"# Conformal risk without RAG 𝛼) 𝑉"#$-retrieval model (Definition 1) Retrieval-augmented calibration set 𝑋! "#$ !'( )!"# Conformal risk with RAG 𝛼)"#$ Theorem 1: RAG achieves low conformal generation risk: 𝛼)"#$ < 𝛼) Proposition 1: retrieval-augmented texts 𝑋! "#$ contain a high number of non-trivial examples (𝑑%, Φ&)-transformer (Definition 2) Calibration set 𝑋! !'( )!"# Conformal risk without RAG 𝛼)(𝜌) 𝑉"#$-retrieval model (Definition 1) Retrieval-augmented calibration set 𝑋! "#$ !'( )!"# Conformal risk with RAG 𝛼)"#$(𝜌) Theorem 3: RAG achieves low conformal generation risk: 𝛼)"#$(𝜌) < 𝛼)(𝜌) Theorem 2 Equation (2) Data exchangeability (no test-time distribution shift) Section 4 𝜌-Hellinger distance test- time distribution shift Section 5 Figure 2: Certification framework of C-RAG. We provide theo- retical results with the data exchangeability assumption in Sec. 5 (upper row) and extend the results to more complex scenarios un- der test-time distribution shifts in Sec. 6 (lower row). 5.1. Analysis setup For our analysis, paralleling the previous transformer stud- ies by (Von Oswald et