itself is highly relevant and accurate to the candidate im- age. Its reasoning path outputs some traces of cor- rect reasoning (it mentions the word "sandwich"), even though it cannot proceed further with disam- biguation. At the same time, no_CoT prompting succeeds in selecting the right choice (B). It also in- creases the confidence in its answer by also stating that "This caption accurately describes the image and highlights the main focus of the picture". Example 3 Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the edible sub? Answer Choices: (A) a ham ham with a few small spikes on it (B) a sandwich cut in half on a white paper. (C) candy canes - the candy cane company (D) a white plate with a bunch of peanuts. (E) a submarine on the water. (F) a plate of meats, sausages, and salad. (G) yellow flowers on a green field (H) a basket filled with apples sitting on top of a table. (I) a man eating a hot dog in a restaurant. (J) a plate of sauerkraut with carrots and cheese. Example 4 There are also cases where both no_CoT and CoT prompts fail to provide the right answer. For example, given the phrase "trotting appendix" and the candidate images of Fig. 8, GPT- 3.5-turbo fails to understand the context of the am- biguous word with respect to the caption choices. Different answers are returned in each case; the no_CoT prompt confidently returns an unsuitable answer ((B) instead of (G)), while the CoT prompt retains an uncertain narrative, stating that more con- text is needed. Even in that case, CoT prompting is more reliable, not only because it does not indicate an inappropriate candidate as the right answer, but also because it better detects the reason why am- biguity cannot be resolved: a "trotting appendix" horse breed contains certain characteristics, which however were not captured by the captioner. Cap- Example 3 no_CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: The most appropriate caption for the edible sub would be (B) "A delicious sandwich cut in half on a white paper." This caption accurately describes the image and highlights the main focus of the picture. CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: Let’s think step by step. First, we need to understand what the "edible sub" is refer- ring to. Is it a sandwich or something else? Once we have this information, we can consider the answer choices and determine which one is the most appropriate caption for the edible sub. Can you provide more information about the "edible sub"? Therefore, among A through J, the answer is unclear without more information about what the "edible sub" actually is." X Table 22: VWSD as QA problem example, with CoT prompting encouraging the selection of the correct can- didate. Questions Q are presented truncated. tions of both images (B) and (G) refer to the seman- tic "horse" without further details about the animal, even though by visually observing the two