as Dyt−1||q) and q integrated into the prompt. Therefore, each iteration can be formulated as follows: yt = M(yt|prompt(Dyt−1||q, q)), ∀1 ≤t ≤T (1) The last output yT will be produced as the final response. 3.2 Generation-Augmented Retrieval There are many natural language tasks with com- plex information needs. For example, in open- domain multi-hop question answering, specific in- formation needs may manifest themselves only after correctly answering some prerequisite sub- questions. In other words, there may exist semantic gaps between the original question q and its sup- porting knowledge, which can not be effectively addressed by a retriever with a representation bot- tleneck. In the first iteration, we can retrieve knowl- edge with only the question q. In later iterations, the LLM output from the previous iteration, though having no guarantee of correctness, shows what might be needed to answer the question, and thus can be leveraged to bridge the semantic gaps; with improved retrieval, an LLM can potentially pro- duce a better output. 3.3 Retrieval-Augmented Generation In each iteration, we generate an output using Chain-of-Thought prompting except that we also prepend retrieved knowledge to the question q. Though there may exist more advanced prompting variants, e.g., incorporating previous generations into the prompt to enable direct refinements, we leave the explorations for future work, and focus on investigating the synergy between retrieval and generation in a straightforward manner. 3.4 Generation-Augmented Retrieval Adaptation Model generations not only provide specific con- texts for retrieval, but can also be leveraged to op- timize the retriever, so that information needs in a question can be better captured by the retriever. Dense Retriever We adopted dense retrieval in our experiments. Given a dense retriever parametrized by θ = {θq, θd} where θq and θd de- note parameters of the query encoder and the para- graph encoder, respectively, the similarity score between a query and a paragraph is calculated as the inner product of their encoded vectors: sθ(q, d) = ⟨E(q; θq), E(d; θd)⟩ (2) Re-ranker A re-ranker, parametrized by ϕ, out- puts the probability of a paragraph being relevant to a query; we denote the probability as sϕ(q, d). Distillation A re-ranker is typically better at cap- turing relevance between a query and a paragraph than a retriever. Therefore, we distill knowledge from a re-ranker to a retriever. To help the retriever better address the semantic gaps between a ques- tion and its supporting knowledge, we allow access to y1 for the re-ranker (where y1 is the LLM out- put from the first iteration). We optimize only the query encoder of the retriever using the following training objective: θ∗ q = arg min θq KL(Pϕ(·|y1, q), Pθ(·|q)) Pϕ(d|y1, q) = exp(sϕ(y1||q, d)/τ) P d′∈Dy1||q exp(sϕ(y1||q, d′)/τ) Pθ(d|q) = exp(sθ(q, d)/τ) P d′∈Dy1||q exp(sθ(q, d′)/τ) (3) where KL(·, ·) denotes the KL divergence between two probabilistic distributions. 4 Experiments 4.1 Datasets We experimented on six datasets of three reason- ing tasks: (1) Multi-hop question answering, including HotPotQA (Yang et al., 2018), 2Wiki- MultiHopQA (Ho et