demonstrate the feasibility of this method. Overall, we believe that bootstrapping these methods–by first manually refining a dataset generated through prompting, then iteratively training models specif- ically for this task, and subsequently using that model to generate more data–is an effective way to scale these methods. 6 Empirical Evaluation In addition to the qualitative analysis we present an empirical evaluation of the frame semantic re- trieval methods described above. We compare the performance of frame semantic retrieval to the two search based baselines described in Section 4.3. We present the results in Table 3. Overall, we find that frame semantic retrieval outperforms both the sim- ple search based baseline and the baseline where search terms are generated using GPT-4 by a signif- icant margin. Recall that we test our methods using Retrieval@k for k ∈35, 40, 45 to take into account the fact that this allows us to demonstrate that our retrieval mechanism can effectively simplify Task 3, which requires retrieval from the entire corpus, into Task 2, which involves building entailment trees based on relevant facts and a few distractors. While our results are not perfect, frame semantic indexing and retrieval has one significant advan- tage. It is the fact that each stage of the process can be improved by fine-tuning LLMs for the specific purpose. In addition, the transparent nature of this process, which outputs frames at each stage, allows for the analysis and ‘debugging’ of each stage. 7 Conclusions and Future Work This work presents a novel mechanism for the in- dexing and retrieval of facts relevant for answer- ing specific questions with the purpose of miti- gating factual hallucinations in LLMs. This work demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of this method in both retrieval and the automatic gen- eration of frames which, when scaled to multiple tasks, has the potential to provide data-driven in- sights to the theory of Frame Semantics. We believe that this work provides a template Recall@ RAKE Search (Baseline 1) GPT-4 Search (Baseline 2) Frame Semantic Retrieval (our method) @35 0.330 0.385 0.439 @40 0.333 0.390 0.464 @45 0.338 0.396 0.473 Table 3: Recall at k between 35 and 45 comparing frame semantic retrieval to search based retrieval where the search terms are generated using a traditional keyword based method (RAKE) and using GPT-4. It is notable that frame semantic retrieval performs significantly better than both baselines across all selected values of k. for effectively integrating cognitive linguistics and LLM research, benefiting both fields. In future work, we intend to first create models that are specifically fine-tuned to perform each of the tasks described above, specifically frame generation, frame identification and frame relation identifica- tion. In addition, we indent to extend this work to multiple tasks so as to establish its effectiveness. Limitations This work presents a novel method of indexing and retrieval of facts specifically for the purpose of ensuring that LLMs reason over retrieved, and therefore correct facts, thereby mitigating factual hallucinations in LLMs. Our experiments are based on a