author, and conservationist. So Chinua Achebe had 4 jobs, while Rachel Carson had 3 jobs. Chinua Achebe had more diverse jobs than Rachel Carson. So the answer is Chinua Achebe {Knowledge} Question: Remember Me Ballin’ is a CD single by Indo G that features an American rapper born in what year? Let’s think step by step. Remember Me Ballin’ is the CD single by Indo G featuring Gangsta Boo. Gangsta Boo is Lola Mitchell’s stage name, who was born in August 7, 1979, and is an American rapper. So the answer is 1979 Table 12: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on HotPotQA. {Knowledge} Question: Which film came out first, Blind Shaft or The Mask Of Fu Manchu? The answer is The Mask Of Fu Manchu {Knowledge} Question: When did John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst’s father die? The answer is 12 June 1516 {Knowledge} Question: Which film has the director who was born later, El Extrano Viaje or Love In Pawn? The answer is El Extrano Viaje Table 13: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on 2WikiMultiHopQA. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # Question: Which film came out first, Blind Shaft or The Mask Of Fu Manchu? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: When did Blind Shaft come out? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Blind Shaft came out in 2003. Follow up: When did The Mask Of Fu Manchu come out? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The Mask Of Fu Manchu came out in 1932. So the final answer is: The Mask Of Fu Manchu # Question: When did John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst’s father die? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the father of John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The father of John V, Prince Of Anhalt-Zerbst is Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau. Follow up: When did Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau die? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau died on 12 June 1516. So the final answer is: 12 June 1516 # Question: Which film has the director who was born later, El Extrano Viaje or Love In Pawn? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the director of El Extrano Viaje? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The director of El Extrano Viaje is Fernando Fernan Gomez. Follow up: Who is the director of Love in Pawn? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The director of Love in Pawn is Charles Saunders. Follow up: When was Fernando Fernan Gomez born? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Fernando Fernan Gomez was born on 28 August 1921. Follow up: When was Charles Saunders (director) born? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Charles Saunders was born on 8 April 1904. So the final answer is: El Extrano Viaje Table 14: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on 2WikiMultiHopQA. Given the following question, answer it