for video action recognition. Arxiv e-prints, 2021. Yi Wang, Kunchang Li, Xinhao Li, Jiashuo Yu, Yinan He, Guo Chen, Baoqi Pei, Rongkun Zheng, Jilan Xu, Zun Wang, et al. Internvideo2: Scaling video foundation models for multimodal video understanding. Arxiv e-prints, 2024b. Wenhao Wu. Freeva: Offline mllm as training-free video assistant. Arxiv e-prints, 2024. Lin Xu, Yilin Zhao, Daquan Zhou, Zhijie Lin, See Kiong Ng, and Jiashi Feng. Pllava: Parameter- free llava extension from images to videos for video dense captioning. Arxiv e-prints, 2024a. Mingze Xu, Mingfei Gao, Zhe Gan, Hong-You Chen, Zhengfeng Lai, Haiming Gang, Kai Kang, and Afshin Dehghan. Slowfast-llava: A strong training-free baseline for video large language models. Arxiv e-prints, 2024b. An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Chengpeng Li, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, et al. Qwen2 technical report. Arxiv e-prints, 2024. Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. Video-llama: An instruction-tuned audio-visual language model for video understanding. Arxiv e-prints, 2023. Zhenyu Zhang, Ying Sheng, Tianyi Zhou, Tianlong Chen, Lianmin Zheng, Ruisi Cai, Zhao Song, Yuandong Tian, Christopher R´e, Clark Barrett, et al. H2o: Heavy-hitter oracle for efficient gen- erative inference of large language models. NeurIPS, 2024. 14 A APPENDIX Attention Map Comparison. In Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, we include comparisons between our LLM’s attention maps and those of several strong video encoders, including UMT (Li et al., 2023b), Ac- tionCLIP (Wang et al., 2021), and InternVideo2 (Wang et al., 2024b). The results show that, unlike these models, the question-to-vision attentions in the LLM accurately focus on visual tokens that are pertinent to the question. In contrast, the other models often struggle to pinpoint key tokens and may focus on irrelevant objects or background elements. These observations suggest that LLMs possess a unique ability to align visual information with linguistic context through their reasoning capabilities, which is not simply a byproduct of standard attention mechanisms in typical video encoders. Question: Describe what the woman is performing? Answer: Yoga. Question: What does the man do before walking out the door? Answer: Read Book. Input UMT Action CLIP InternVideo2 Ours Input UMT Action CLIP InternVideo2 Ours (a) (b) Figure 5: Attention map comparison of video encoders and our method. 15 Question: What happened after the person held the blanket? Answer: Tidied up the table. Question: What happened before the person held the food? Answer: Put down the bag. Input UMT Action CLIP InternVideo2 Ours Input UMT Action CLIP InternVideo2 Ours (c) (d) Figure 6: Attention map comparison of video encoders and our method. 16