on the open- sourced Mixtral 8x7B and Mixtral 8x7B Instruct models as they are by far the most popular MoE LLMs. With the development of MoE LLMs, we will carry out experiments on other MoE LLMs in the future to give a more comprehensive analysis of the generalizability and scalability of our method. Ethics Statement Our research focuses on improving the deployment efficiency of Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) large lan- guage models (LLMs) through expert-level sparsi- fication techniques, aiming to reduce model sizes and enhance inference speed without compromis- ing performance. While our methods offer poten- tial benefits for deploying advanced LLMs more broadly and efficiently, we acknowledge the im- portance of considering the ethical implications of deploying such models. These include ensuring the responsible use of LLMs, mitigating biases in model outputs, and addressing privacy concerns. We commit to making our code available for trans- parency and encourage the community to use our findings responsibly, considering the societal im- pacts of deploying LLMs. Acknowledgement This project is funded in part by National Key R&D Program of China Project 2022ZD0161100, by the Centre for Perceptual and Interactive Intelligence (CPII) Ltd under the Innovation and Technology Commission (ITC)’s InnoHK, by General Research Fund of Hong Kong RGC Project 14204021. Hong- sheng Li is a PI of CPII under the InnoHK. References Keivan Alizadeh, Iman Mirzadeh, Dmitry Belenko, Karen Khatamifard, Minsik Cho, Carlo C Del Mundo, Mohammad Rastegari, and Mehrdad Farajtabar. 2023. Llm in a flash: Efficient large language model infer- ence with limited memory. Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901. Tianyu Chen, Shaohan Huang, Yuan Xie, Binx- ing Jiao, Daxin Jiang, Haoyi Zhou, Jianxin Li, and Furu Wei. 2022. Task-specific expert prun- ing for sparse mixture-of-experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.00277. Zewen Chi, Li Dong, Shaohan Huang, Damai Dai, Shuming Ma, Barun Patra, Saksham Singhal, Payal Bajaj, Xia Song, Xian-Ling Mao, Heyan Huang, and Furu Wei. 2022. On the representation collapse of sparse mixture of experts. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, et al. 2021. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168. Shuangrui Ding, Peisen Zhao, Xiaopeng Zhang, Rui Qian, Hongkai Xiong, and Qi Tian. 2023. Prune spatio-temporal tokens by semantic-aware tempo- ral accumulation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 16945–16956. William Fedus, Barret Zoph, and Noam Shazeer. 2022. Switch transformers: Scaling to trillion parame- ter models with simple and efficient sparsity. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 23(1):5232– 5270. Elias Frantar and Dan Alistarh. 2023. Sparsegpt: Mas- sive language models can be accurately pruned in one-shot. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 10323–10337. PMLR. Elias Frantar, Saleh Ashkboos, Torsten Hoefler, and Dan Alistarh. 2022. Gptq: Accurate post-training quantization for generative pre-trained transformers. arXiv preprint