Pb in the insertion study and Pm−Pb Pb for the ablation study. These deﬁnitions differ so that a positive value always indicates that the modiﬁcation is good and a negative value always indicates that the modiﬁcation is bad. Three techniques are beneﬁcial in all scenarios. The ﬁrst is “12X proj,” which increases the size of the Transformer feed forward upwards projection while controlling for parameters. We ﬁnd this works well for smaller models but is not useful at larger sizes. The second two, MDHA and squared ReLUs, are the deﬁning modiﬁcations of Primer-EZ, a simpler model that captures much of the gains of the full Primer. 27 +Squared Relu +MDHA +PrePost Norm +12X Proj +Custom Norm +Share QK 0 Normalized PPLX Delta Insertion Study T2T Code Base T5 Code Base -Squared Relu -MDHA -PrePost Norm -12X Proj -Custom Norm -Share QK 0 Normalized PPLX Delta Ablation Study T2T Code Base T5 Code Base Figure 26: Investigation into transferability of Primer modiﬁcations on LM1B at ∼35M parameters. In the “Insertion Study” we insert each of the modiﬁcations into a vanilla Transformer. In the “Ablation Study,” we remove each modiﬁcation from Primer. “Normalized PPLX Delta” indicates the degree to which the treated models are affected by these modiﬁcations; values are normalized to be comparable across code bases and so that positive values indicate beneﬁcial techniques in both studies. Likewise, negative values indicate harmful techniques in both studies. A.8 Full Training Details In all experiments, we use previously published hyperparameter settings that were tuned for Trans- former, with regularization disabled and no additional tuning for Primer. In Tensor2Tensor (T2T) these are the TRANSFORMER_TPU hyperparameters and in T5 and Lingvo these are the open-sourced parameters used in previous T5 studies [5, 49]. They both specify an Adafactor optimizer [56], with 10K warmup steps at a learning rate of 0.01, followed by reciprocal square root learning rate decay. T2T uses positional embeddings and subword tokenization, while T5 and Lingvo use relative attention [57] and SentencePieces [58]. For LM1B, we use the T2T default settings of max sequence length of 64 and batches of 4096 tokens; this is appropriate because LM1B has an average sequence length of roughly 32. For C4 and PG19, we use the T5 default of a max sequence length of 512. For one-shot pretraining, we use a max sequence length of 1024. In Section 4.2 we use batches of 65K tokens, in Section 4.3 we use batches of 1M tokens, and in Section 4.4 we uses batches of 2M tokens. A.9 Power Law Compute Savings Derivations In Section 4.1 of the main text, we reproduce the results of Kaplan et al. [9] and show that, at optimal parameter sizing, the relationship between language model quality and training compute follows a power law: l = ac−k, where l is validation loss, c is training compute, and a and k are empirical constants. This is represented as a line in double log space (Figure 7): log l = −k log c + log a.