[164], Policy Gradients [165], and Actor-Critic [166] methods are deployed to refine retrieval strategies progressively. This methodology endows the system with the capacity to enhance its retrieval performance continuously through active interaction and accrued experience. This process can be described as follows: The relevant reasoning background lies in a question-specific subgraph Gsub that contains all the source entities Qs, target entities Qt, and their neighbors. An ideal subgraph Gsub is expected to have the following properties: (i) Gsub encompasses as many source and target entities as possible; (ii) The entities, and relations within Gsub exhibit a strong relevance to question context; (iii) Gsub is concise with little redundant information such that it can be fed into LLMs with limited lengths. However, it is challenging to find such a Gsub since extracting a subgraph is NP-hard. To effectively and efficiently find a satisfactory Gsub, some researchers develop tailored knowledge extraction methods that employ deep RL to sample reasoning chains in a trial-and-error fashion [5], [90]. C. Retrieval Enhancement Strategies Based on the retrieval technologies, some strategies are designed to enhance the retrieved resources, aiming to improve the relevance of target queries. We will introduce insights into these strategies in this subsection. 1) Multi-round Retrieval: Beyond static retrieval techniques, some GraphRAG systems incorporate contextual information and user feedback to refine and adapt the retrieval process dynamically, which we call multi-round retrieval. These ap- proaches aim to gradually align the retriever more closely with specific use cases and evolving user intents [73], [92], [93]. 2) Post-retrieval: Traditionally, GraphRAG mainly adopted prior retrieval, which means the retrieval process is conducted before generation. Recently, a new type of post-retrieval strategy has received more and more attention [66], [96]. This kind of method conducts retrieval after the generation process. In this way, the retrieved results can be adopted to evaluate whether the generated answers are faithful and accurate. The evaluation can be used as the guidance for LLM rethinking and correcting. 3) Hybrid Retrieval: Combining different forms of data for retrieval can integrate their strengths and complement their weaknesses. In GraphRAG systems, recent studies have adopted the use of both graphs and other data formats to collaboratively enhance the RAG process. Specifically, to enhance the scope of the retrieval candidates, Graph+Vector RAG [135], [167] combine the knowledge graph and the vector database as the retrieval sources and integrate the retrieved results for answer generation. For example, ToG-2 [22] performs joint retrieval on a knowledge graph and text documents. It begins with entities identified from the query and iteratively retrieves relevant knowledge. Due to the static nature of knowledge graphs, to further ensure the timeliness and accuracy of the retrieved information, some efforts have begun to combine knowledge graphs with online web resources for joint retrieval, 13 TABLE II: Representative fine-tuning knowledge integration techniques used in GraphRAG systems. Category Model Input Format Preprocess Applied (L)LMs Node-level SKETCH [97] Node attribute Concatenate Node Attribute LLAMA3-8B GraphGPT [98] Node attribute & Graph Embeddings Learning Node Embeddings Baichuan-7B Path-level GLRec