items are statistically consistent, they will show a similar pattern or trend, as evidenced by a 7-point Likert scale in which all answers are greater 7 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 2. Distribution of Forward and Reverse Scored Items Orientation Forward Reverse NEUROTICISM 9 5 EXTRAVERSION 10 10 OPENNESS 9 5 AGREEABLENESS 10 9 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS 6 7 TOTAL COUNT 44 36 than or equal to 4, or less than or equal to 4, which indicate that the LLMs have responded conscientiously and logically. We introduce the Consistency metric to measure the logical consistency of LLM responses with the following formula: Consistency = Nc Nt −Pmin Pmax −Pmin , (5) where Nc is the number of questions with the same response direction within each measurement tendency in the adjusted response, Nt is the number of all statements, Pmax and Pmin are the maximum and the minimum of the proportion of consistent responses in all the statements. The value of Pmax is 1, representing that all the responses are internally consistent within each assessment orientation. The value of Pmin is supposed to be P⌈Ni 2 ⌉ Nt , where Nt is the count of all of the scored statements and Ni is the count of scored statements in each assessment orientation. Hence, Pmin equals to 0.5125. The range of Consistency is from 0 to 1. The closer the value of Consistency is to 1, the more internally consistent the LLM’s responses are. Consequently, we can evaluate the LLM’s responses based on the prior knowledge of human personality assessment questionnaires The second method is Split-Half Reliability. We measure the reliability of LLM’s responses by comparing two equal-length sections of the questionnaire. This approach is based on the assumption that if a test is reliable, then any two equal-length sections of it should produce similar results. We first divide the questionnaire into two equal-length sections while ensuring that the content of each section is basically the same, representing that the numbers of statements within any assessment dimension in two halves are the same, thereby ensuring the accuracy of the reliability assessment. Then, we compute the Spearman’s rank coefficient between the scores of the two sections to measure their consistency. The specific formula is shown in Section 3.2. Larger values indicate higher internal consistency of the responses. Finally, we calculated the reliability of the overall responses by using the Spearman-Brown formula as follows: Reliability = 2corr 1 + corr, (6) where corr is the Spearman’s rank coefficient between the scores of the two sections. The range of Reliability is from negative infinity to 1. Only if the value of an LLM’s responses Reliability metric is around the human level, we can make it for further investigation. We assessed the reliability of seven LLMs’ reponses. The results of the are shown in Table 3. We have also recruited 16 human participants, comprising an equal number of males and females, all native Chinese speakers with an English proficiency level