ually pre-selecting a small set of 10-20 relevant tools for each evaluation task. For example, the ToolACE (Liu et al., 2024a) and ToolBench (Qin et al., 2023) annotate about 10 tools per task. While recent information retrieval (IR) techniques such as semantic matching (Qu et al., 2024a; Xu et al., 2024), can assist with tool retrieval, they are of- ten trained on ad-hoc tool-use datasets, lacking comprehensive evaluation on diverse scenarios, es- pecially for unseen tasks. To further explore the importance of tool retrieval, we conduct a pilot experiment on ToolBench (Qin et al., 2023). As shown in Figure 1, we observe that (i) the agent’s performance substantially drops when replacing the officially annotated toolset with the retrieved tools; and (ii) even strong retrievers like colbertv2 (San- thanam et al., 2021a), struggle to retrieve target tools effectively. These findings highlight the ne- cessity to (i) systematically evaluate IR models on diverse tool retrieval tasks; and (ii) analyze the impact of retrieval on the end-to-end task pass rate. In this work, we introduce TOOLRET, the first arXiv:2503.01763v2 [cs.CL] 26 May 2025 large-scale tool retrieval benchmark comprising 7.6k diverse retrieval tasks and a corpus of 43k tools, which comprehensively evaluates IR mod- els across diverse retrieval scenarios. Specifically, we collect query-tool datasets from the following sources: (i) Tool-use agent benchmarks from pub- lished research papers in AI conferences, such as ACL and NeurIPS; (ii) Related conference re- sources such as AppBench in EMNLP and Tool- Lens in CIKM; and (iii) Other publicly available datasets from the open-source community, e.g., HuggingFace. The collected data is carefully cu- rated to cover a wide range of practical tool require- ments, comprising diverse types of tool documen- tation, domains, and varying query lengths. Then, we standardize the format of all the collected tasks, aligning them with retrieval tasks similar to the for- mat in MTEB, where each retrieval task contains a query and target tools (e.g., labels). To support the instructional retrieval (Weller et al., 2024) setting of our benchmark, we also introduce a target-aware strategy to supplement each query with an instruc- tion using the powerful LLMs (i.e., gpt-4o). We systematically evaluate five types of IR mod- els such as embedding models and LLM re-ranking, under various experimental settings. Our results re- veal that even the best model (i.e., NV-embedd-v1) that demonstrates strong performance in conven- tional IR benchmarks, achieves an nDCG@10 of only 33.83 in our benchmark. This highlights the challenges of the tool retrieval tasks. We identify two key factors contributing to this performance gap: (i) Lower term overlap between queries and target tools in tool retrieval tasks, which demands higher representation abilities for IR models to ac- curately match query intent with the correct tools; and (ii) Task shift from conventional information- seeking tasks (e.g., document retrieval) to tool re- trieval, leading to suboptimal performance of IR models that are not explicitly optimized. To enhance the retrieval performance and enable IR models to augment tool-use agents, we further propose the TOOLRET-train, a