on CAR, we expect these insights to guide future work in CAR. 2 Background and Related Work 2.1 Complex Answer Retrieval Complex answer retrieval is a new area of research in IR. In 2017, the TREC conference ran a new shared task focused on CAR [8]. The goal of this task is to rank answer paragraphs corresponding to a complex question. The shared task frames CAR in terms of Wikipedia content generation. This is appro- priate because the editorial guidelines and strong role of moderators makes Wikipedia an authoritative source of information [10]. Paragraphs from arti- cles meeting topic criteria2 are selected as a source of answers for retrieval. The task goes one step farther by asserting that Wikipedia is also a good source of CAR queries and relevance judgments. CAR queries are formed from article titles (the query topic, an entity), and headings (query facets of that partic- ular topic). Furthermore, paragraphs found under each heading are treated as “automatically” relevant to that particular topic, yielding a large amount of training data [7]. This makes it practical to train data-hungry neural IR models for CAR. Figure 2 shows an article’s heading hierarchy, including the question topic and an example facet. Due to the hierarchal nature of headings in Wikipedia, CAR queries in- clude multiple headings. This is important to provide adequate context for the answers. For instance, in Figure 2, heading 7.3 refers specially to the pas- teurization of cheese as it relates to nutrition and health. For simplicity, we treat the article title as the ﬁrst element in a list of headings that represents each query. Thus, a CAR query is a sequence of headings. In the remainder of this manuscript, we use ‘»’ to separate the heading components of a query. The root heading is the title and represents the topic entity of the query. The leaf heading represents the most speciﬁc topic; we call this the main heading. Intermediate headings are any headings between the title and main heading provide context for the main heading. Table 1 provides example queries using this terminology. Note that a given query does not necessarily have any inter- mediate headings, and that a main heading in one query (Cheese » Nutrition and health) can appear as an intermediate heading in another query (Cheese » Nutrition and health » Pasteurization). 2 E.g., templates, talk pages, portals, lists, references, and pages representing people, organizations, music, books, and others are discarded [8]. Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 5 topic entity (title) facet (heading) Fig. 2 Headings found in the Wikipedia article Cheese, including labels for the question “Is cheese healthy?”. Adapted from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheese. Table 1 Example CAR queries from Wikipedia by heading position. Some queries have no intermediate headings. Title Intermediate Heading(s) Main Heading Cheese » (none) » Nutrition and health Green sea turtle » Ecology and behavior » Life cycle History of the United States » 20th Century » Imperialism Disturbance (ecology) » (none) » Cyclic disturbance Medical tourism »