implicit biases can push LLMs toward generating affirmatively an- swered questions [25]. To measure this tendency, we analyze the distribution of generated questions, ground-truth answers, and the outputs of the RAG system for these questions. We find a clear imbalance: for instance, with Gemma on TREC-COVID, questions answered with “yes" appear nearly 12 times more often than those answered with “no." Accuracy is also skewed: 61% for "yes" re- sponses and 39% for “no", suggesting a bias toward affirmative answers. To address this, we adapted the attack and scoring func- tions such that the model is given multiple answers to choose from, with only one being correct. Despite the format change, attack effectiveness remains comparable. For example, we sampled 100 members and 100 nonmembers from SCIDOCS and tested the attack against LLaMA 3.1 (without query rewriting). We found that attack performance remained almost unchanged: the AUC is 97.7% for yes/no questions and 97.8% for multiple-choice questions. 0 2 4 6 8 Lambda 0.94 0.95 0.96 0.97 0.98 0.99 AUC TREC-COVID NFCorpus SCIDOCS Figure 7: Attack performance (AUC) as a function of the UNK penalty 𝜆. Performance increases steadily with higher 𝜆values before leveling off. 6.3.4 UNK Response Penalty (𝜆). As described in (5), 𝜆is a hyper- parameter that penalizes the RAG system when it cannot answer a question. We set 𝜆to a value greater than one (5) to reflect this intuition, but find that performance remains stable as long as it is reasonably large. For example, Gemma-2 on TREC-COVID shows an increase in attack AUC from 0.938 at 𝜆= 0 to 0.954 at 𝜆= 7, after which it stabilizes, as shown in Figure 7. This effect is further clarified by the proportion of UNK responses: 7.58% for members versus 54.05% for non-members when queried with our attack’s questions, highlighting the value of the penalty. 7 Discussion In this section, we begin by outlining the assumptions regarding the nature of the RAG documents in our setup (Section 7.1). Follow- ing that, we analyze the failure cases observed during our attack in Section 7.2. We then examine the financial costs involved in launching the attack (Section 7.3), and finally, in Section 7.4, we explore potential countermeasures against the attack, along with their limitations. 11 7.1 Assumptions on RAG Documents While we observe impressive inference performance with our at- tack, even under the presence of detection schemes, we now discuss the list of assumptions made related to the nature of documents in a RAG setup. Length Dependency. The documents targeted by our attack must be sufficiently long to provide enough information for generating meaningful questions. Applications involving short documents (e.g., 2-3 lines) may lack the necessary content to generate 30 distinct and effective questions. This limitation is less critical in domain-specific RAG applications, where documents are typically longer and rich enough in content to justify the use of a RAG system. Generic Documents. In addition to length, the targeted docu- ments must contain information that the base LLM is unaware of or not