Unfaithful Reasoning involves providing false rationalisations for outputs, often incorporating biassed chain-of-thought prompting. In a stereotype bias test, GPT-3.5, irrespective of the narrative role assigned, fabricated a justification for a biassed conclusion that the black man was attempting to purchase drugs. UR demonstrates self-deception rooted in AI’s underlying predictions, biassed algorithms and datasets, leading to arbitrary assessment (Park et al., 2023; Turpin et al., 2023). Experimentation with GPT-3, GPT-3.5, GPT-4 reveals that more advanced models display stronger deceptive capabilities. Future LLMs are expected to perform more intricate mentalizing loops and tackle deception problems of increasing complexity. It is crucial to recognize that categories of deception may overlap: Unfaithful Reasoning may parallel with obfuscation, which is difficult to identify from ordinary error (O’Gara, 2023; Park et al., 2023). Further research and testing need to acknowledge the nuanced interconnections among types of deception. 8 Misuse, Loss of Control, Societal Harm The misuse of LLMs by developers for malicious activities, fraud perpetuation, and the dissemination of fake content, such as election tampering, represents structural risk (Ward et al., 2023). Furthermore, there is an ongoing risk of loss of control, as these LLMs may elude human supervision or safety tests5. Deceptive AI systems can cause social implications such as enlarging discrepancies between educated and uneducated individuals6, political polarisation, and cultural homogenization7 to promote dominant culture8 (Park et al., 2023). The gradual transfer of authority to AI, human enfeeblement, and the integration of deceptive practices into management structures to gain control over economic decisions are also haphazard structural effects of deceptive AI (Castelfranchi, 2000; Park et al., 2023; Perez et al., 2022; Turpin et al., 2023). Policy recommendations for addressing AI deception, such as robust regulation, proactive risk assessment, and effective detection techniques, need continued research effort. Ongoing contextualization of deception AI is also crucial in promoting ethical frameworks (Zhan, Xu and Sarkadi, 2023; Zhu, 2023). Where Do We Go from Here? International Governance Balancing the concerns of AI deception without constraining AI’s potential presents a central challenge for regulators globally, yet it is imperative to foster international collaboration on developing governance frameworks and ethical standards. The challenges in coordinating across countries extend beyond mistrust between cultures, encompassing political tensions between the “Western” and “Eastern” countries rooted in the legacy of colonisation, and divergent philosophical traditions (ÓhÉigeartaigh et al., 2020). The global power dynamic contributes to a competitive “race” in AI development, and the divergence in beliefs in understanding deception may lead to irresolvable perspectives on key issues between countries (Horowitz et al., 2017). For instance, European AI researchers may reject opportunities for 5As exemplified by Strategic Deception 6As exemplified by Sandbagging 7As exemplified by Unfaithful Reasoning 8As exemplified by Sycophancy and Imitation 9 collaboration with Chinese colleagues based on misalignment with civil rights and value on privacy (Hardman, 2021). Given that deception is a social phenomenon influenced by cultural backgrounds, AI researchers focusing on regulating deception must invest time in learning about countries and gaining knowledge of global cultural differences in relation to deception