factor by distribution shifts . Remarks. Our result rigorously characterizes the effect of distribution shift on the reduced risk guarantee of RAG. (R1) Compared to Thm. 1, only the uncertainty of retrieval model pr(ρ) is affected by the distribution shift ρ. This affect is reflected on the the retrieval quality Vrag(ρ). In particu- lar, a large distance radius ρ will downgrade the retrieval quality Vrag(ρ) and thus lead to a higher uncertainty pr(ρ). However, the influence of ρ on pr(ρ) can be reduced by Nrag inverse proportionally and by Next exponentially, demonstrat- ing the robustness of RAG with more retrieval knowledge. (R2) Since Vrag(ρ) is proportional to model variance Vrag, a low-variance retrieval model demonstrates better robustness against distribution drifts, aligning with existing empirical observations (Lam, 2016; Gotoh et al., 2018; Namkoong & Duchi, 2017), which evaluate the generalization ability of low-variance retrieval models under distribution shifts. (R3) Compared to Thm. 1, Thm. 3 has no dependence on varying label portions r(c) cal during distribution shifts, as long as the size of external knowledge base Next is moderately large, a condition often met in practice with large knowledge bases. 1Additionally, we examine retrieval quality and prove a lower bound of retrieved positive examples under test-time distribution shifts. We leave the analysis to App. H for interested readers. 7. Evaluation We evaluate C-RAG on four datasets using different retrieval models. We find that (1) our conformal generation risks in Prop. 1 is empirically sound and tight in Sec. 7.2, (2) RAG reduces the conformal generation risks for different retrieval models, which empirically validates Thm. 1 in Sec. 7.2, (3) the conformal generation risk under distribution shifts in Thm. 2 is empirically sound and tight for varying distances in Sec. 7.3, (4) multi-dimensional RAG configurations main- tain sound and tight conformal generation risks in Sec. 7.4, and (5) C-RAG computes valid configurations with empiri- cal risks always below the desired risk level in Sec. 7.5. The codes are publicly available at https://github. com/kangmintong/C-RAG. 7.1. Evaluation setup Datasets & knowledge base We evaluate C-RAG on four widely used NLP datasets, including AESLC (Zhang & Tetreault, 2019), CommonGen (Lin et al., 2019), DART (Nan et al., 2020), and E2E (Novikova et al., 2017). Follow- ing (Wang et al., 2023c; Cheng et al., 2023), we construct the knowledge base as a collection of 30 public datasets from 9 distinct categories with over 6 million documents. Retrieval models We consider four retrieval models: (1) BM25 (Robertson et al., 2009) with token-level matching scores, (2) BAAI/bge (Zhang et al., 2023a) as SOTA em- bedding model in MTEB benchmark (Muennighoff et al., 2022), (3) OpenAI/ada as SOTA close source text embed- ding model, and (4) Biencoder-SFT (Wang et al., 2023c) as a biencoder retriever trained with in-domain data samples. RAG Generation protocol We use our generation pro- tocol (Alg. 1 in App. C.1) controlled by the number of retrieved examples Nrag, generation set size λg, and diversity threshold λs. We use Llama-2-7b for inference and perform conformal calibration