hallucination benchmarks [Li et al., 2023, Lin et al., 2022] and mitigation strategies [Lewis et al., 2021, Dhuliawala et al., 2023], most studies address specific aspects of the issue without offering a holistic solution. Existing testsets such as those provided by HaluEval [Li et al., 2023] and DelucionQA [Sadat et al., 2023] provide benchmarks for tasks like QA but rely heavily on time-consuming human annotation. These testsets also lack question complexity and variety. Existing frameworks also tend to focus on a single hallucination evaluation criterion, for example identification or generation individually, which often limits their effectiveness. By our definition, a robust model must satisfy two criteria–to be able to both identify hallucinations and generate text without hallucinations. To solve these issues, we designed THaMES, a Tool for Hallucination Mitigations and EvaluationS. THaMES is an end-to-end framework that evaluates and mitigates hallucinations, incorporating batch processing, weighted sampling, and diverse question types, evaluating multiple criteria in order to select optimal mitigation strategies. The testset generation process in THaMES leverages weighted sampling and refined prompts to create more diverse hallucination testsets. We also introduced a batch generation technique that reduces testset creation costs while improving diversity and completeness. Additionally, THaMES preprocesses test sets and uses downstream tasks to evaluate models on both criteria–hallucination identification and generation. To mitigate hallucinations, multiple advanced strategies such as In-Context Learning (ICL) [Dong et al., 2024], which includes Chain-of-Thought (CoT) [Wei et al., 2023] and Chain-of-Verification (CoVe) prompting [Dhuliawala et al., 2023] , help models reason and verify outputs step-by-step. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [Lewis et al., 2021] improves factual accuracy by grounding responses in external knowledge. Parameter- efficient fine-tuning methods such as LoRA [Hu et al., 2021] also provide task-specific improvements. Since no single mitigation strategy works best across all models, THaMES evaluates three different strategies, allowing users to select the optimal one based on the model and knowledge base. We applied the THaMES framework to multiple models, including OpenAI’s GPT-4o [OpenAI, 2024] and GPT-4o-mini, Meta’s Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct [MetaAI, 2024], and Mistral’s Mistral-Nemo [MistralAI, 2024]. Results showed that In-Context Learning (CoVe) was less effective for GPT-4o, while RAG significantly improved performance. In contrast, Llama-3.1 performed better with In- Context Learning. Additionally, we applied PEFT to the Llama-3.1 model, and the results indicated that Llama-3.1 produced significantly fewer hallucinated outputs. In summary, The THaMES framework offers a comprehensive solution for hallucination evaluation and mitigation, setting a new standard for reliable LLM development and deployment. 2 2 Methodology The THaMES framework is divided into three main components as shown in figure 1: (1) Testset generation from a user-provided corpus. (2) Baseline metric evaluation based on testset. and (3) Mitigation strategy evaluation based on baseline metrics. In integrating these components, we present an end-to-end solution that transforms raw corpora into specialized LLM benchmarks, revealing optimal hallucination mitigation strategies. 2.1 Hallucination Benchmark Testset Generation This section introduces a method for generating synthetic question-answer (QA) testsets to benchmark hallucination in LLMs. Each QA pair consists of a question, the correct answer, and one hallucinated