at the 2nd layer and set the retained ratio to 0.3 to achieve roughly comparable FLOPs to our method. Additionally, the FLOPs in the experiments are measured in relation to the visual tokens in the LLM. 4.4 MAIN RESULT As illustrated Tab. 1, our method consistently achieves the best performance in almost all cases com- pared to existing pruning methods (FastV, Prumerge, and Look-M) while retaining fewer tokens and achieving lower FLOPs. For instance, on PLLaVA, our approach retains only 16.2% of tokens yet surpasses the performance of other pruning methods and even the baseline model under MVBench, VideoMME, and Egoschema. A similar pattern is observed for ST-LLM and LLaVA-OneVision, where our method maintains robust performance with retained ratios as low as 15.1% and 17.0%, respectively, across all benchmarks. This underscores the versatility of our approach in balancing accuracy with a substantial reduction in computational overhead. Moreover, while Prumerge also maintains competitive accuracy on some models, it fails to do so with substantially reduced token budgets. Similarly, although Look-M can achieve decent perfor- mance, it requires using the vanilla attention implementation for all layers, resulting in relatively low 8 Table 2: Efficiency comparison for visual token pruning methods. TTFT stands for time-to-first- token, which is commonly used for evaluating the efficiency of LLMs. Method FLOPs (×) TTFT Speed Up (×) GPU Mem Accuracy Baseline 1.00 × 1.00 × 20G 46.6 Baseline w/FastV 0.33 × 1.15 × 19G 46.1 Baseline w/Prumerge 0.53 × 1.32 × 19G 45.6 Baseline w/Look-M 1.00 × 0.15 × 35G 46.6 Baseline w/Ours 0.23 × 1.55 × 17G 47.6 efficiency. Additionally, we find that FastV struggles to maintain consistent performance across dif- ferent models. For instance, while it performs well on PLLaVA and LLaVA-OneVision, its accuracy on ST-LLM is unsatisfactory, indicating a lack of robustness across diverse architectures. In con- trast, our method effectively adapts by identifying and preserving only the most informative tokens for video understanding, thereby delivering strong overall performance with significantly reduced computational costs. 4.5 DIAGNOSTIC STUDY In this section, we conduct a diagnostic study based on the PLLaVA model for efficiency compari- son, hyper-parameter investigations, and qualitative visualizations. Efficiency Analysis. As shown on Tab. 2, We compare multiple visual token pruning methods with respect to FLOPs, TTFT speed-up, GPU memory usage, and accuracy. Overall, FastV and Prumerge both demonstrate notable FLOPs reduction and moderate speed gains, though their influence on ac- curacy remains slightly adverse. By contrast, Look-M manages to preserve accuracy comparable to the baseline but incurs a very low TTFT speed up and escalates GPU memory to a high level, sug- gesting that its underlying layer-wise strategy increases overhead. In contrast, our proposed method achieves the most efficient balance by yielding the fastest TTFT speed up, the largest FLOPs reduc- tion, the smallest memory footprint, and the highest accuracy, clearly underscoring the advantages of our token pruning approach over existing techniques. Ablation Study on Token Selection Ratio α and the Position of Pruning Layer M. As shown in Fig. 3 (a),