to trace the internal processing of the LLM and has shown to contain additional information (Ameisen et al., 2025; Lindsey et al., 2025). As one example, internal states have previously been applied in hallucination detection, where classifiers were trained using the internal representations as an input and were able to identify hallucinated outputs with higher accuracy than response-based methods (Azaria and Mitchell, 2023; Ridder and Schilling, 2024b). This demonstrates that internal states contain rich information about the model’s internal reasoning, beyond what is expressed in its generated text. For all experiments, we used LLaMA-3-8B. We chose the base version rather than the Instruct model, since our setup does not require text generation but relies solely on extracting contextualized embedding vectors (CEVs) for the given text samples. The instruction-tuned variant is optimized for producing conversational and helpful continuations, which could introduce unwanted biases in the internal representations. To avoid such effects, we used the base model for 5 all CEV extractions. Input to the LLM were the tokenized texts from the dataset. These sequences of texts were passed to the model for processing. Internal states of the last layer for the last token of a text were extracted using the Transformers library (Hugging Face, 2025), which provides direct access to the final-layer embeddings for all tokens in a sequence. We trained a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) classifier on the CEFR-annotated dataset described in a supervised fashion. The final MLP architecture consists of four fully connected layers (input size-1024-512-256-6) with ReLU activa- tions and softmax in the output layer, following previous probing architectures (Ridder and Schilling, 2024a; Su et al., 2024). Training used a learning rate of 1×10−3 and an L2 regularization of 0.001 (hyperparameters were tuned using a grid search over architecture, learning rate, and regularization). The network receives the contextualized embedding vectors (CEVs) from the last hidden layer of the LLaMA-3-8B model as input, with the assigned CEFR proficiency label as the target output. These embeddings served as input features for the classifier. As the data sets are small, we used five fold cross validation to evaluate the classification performance. 4 Results In this section, we present the results of our CEFR classification experiments, structured into four main parts: prompt engineering, comparison of different LLMs, probing approach, and fine-tuning. We evaluated the model’s performance using standard classification metrics including accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. Additionally, we introduced a group accuracy metric to account for the continuous nature of CEFR levels, considering classifications of adjacent lev- els as correct. As another metric, we defined a mean classification distance, which quantifies the average gap between predicted and true language proficiency levels. Distances are assigned as integer penalties, with adjacent levels count- ing as 1 and more distant errors receiving proportionally larger penalties. In contrast to binary accuracy, this approach provides more nuanced evaluation by weighting the severity of classification errors. This approach better reflects the practical application of CEFR classification, as boundaries between levels are at least to a certain degree subjective