ranker of facet utility (Section 3.1-3.2, Figure 3b-c), and one approach to include entity similarity signals to inform the model of relevance for low-utility facets using knowledge base embedding similarity scores (Section 3.3, Figure 3d). Finally, we describe our implemen- tation strategy for a concrete neural ranker (PACRR, Section 3.4). 3.1 Contextual vectors Many information retrieval approaches use the simple (yet powerful) term IDF value as a signal for query term importance. Neural models incorporate this signal, too. For instance, DRMM [9] and PACRR [12] use an IDF vector in the combination phase. We generalize this approach by allowing an arbitrary number of contextual vectors to be included in the model alongside term in- teraction signals (Figure 3b). Here, we use contextual vectors to provide an estimation of facet utility, understanding that the models can learn how to use these values when making relevance judgments. We propose two such estima- tors: heading position (HP) and heading frequency (HF). Heading position Recall that CAR queries consist of multiple components: the topic and facet. When framed as Wikipedia content generation, CAR queries are broken down further into a list of sub-queries, where the ﬁrst represents Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 9 Table 2 Sample contextual vectors for “green sea turtle » ecology and behavior » life cycle”. green sea turtle ecology and behavior life cycle position_title 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 position_inter 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 position_main 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 heading_frequency 0 0 0 3 3 3 3 3 the topic, followed by intermediate headings and the main heading. When estimating heading utility, the position of the heading in the list intuitively provides a signal of heading utility. For instance, the title is necessarily topical; it is the topic. Furthermore, any intermediate headings are likely structural because they provide categorizations for the main heading. Finally, the main heading may be either topical or structural; its position inherently tells the model nothing about whether or not to expect the term to appear. Thus, we encode three vectors to encode query term position information: one that indicates if the term exists in the title, and intermediate heading, or the main heading. An example of these vectors is given in Table 2. The beneﬁts of including heading position information can extend beyond simply distinguishing whether a term is likely in a topical or structural heading. For instance, the topic of a question may be abbreviated in relevant paragraphs to avoid excessive repetition. By including heading position information in this way, the model can distinguish when certain matching patterns are important to capture. Heading frequency Another possible estimator of heading utility is the fre- quency that a heading appears in a suﬃciently representative dataset. For in- stance, because structural headings such as “Nutrition and health” are general and can accommodate a variety of topics, you would expect to ﬁnd the head- ing in many food-related articles. Indeed, the heading appears in Wikipedia