prompting elicit the appropriate behavior of GPT- 3.5-turbo, guiding it to distinguish how the phrase "metal steel" differs from the semantically similar one "black piece of metal". This fine-grained ca- pacity is one of the crucial desiderata of VWSD systems, and seems to be somehow connected with CoT reasoning. Example 1 Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the metal steel? Answer Choices: (A) a chocolate bar with three sides (B) [unused0] and [unused0] at the concert in 2007 (C) a guitar and a guitar are displayed in front of a speaker. (D) frosty patterns on a window (E) gold in the rocks - - (F) a black piece of metal with a large black square in the middle. (G) a jar of honey on a wooden table. (H) a close up of a metal plate with a pattern of lines. (I) a large white quartz rock with a clear base. (J) gold jewelry from the late 19th century. Example 2 There are cases when CoT fails to enhance the given phrase with appropriate context. In the case of Fig. 6, the most relevant image out of the options of Fig. 6 to the phrase "tender em- A B C D E F G H (Gold image) I J Figure 5: Example 1. Candidate images for the phrase "metal steel". Example 1 no_CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: The most appropriate caption for the metal steel would be (F) a black piece of metal with a large black square in the middle. X CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: Let’s think step by step. First, we need to understand what metal steel is and what its characteristics are. Steel is a hard and strong metal alloy made mainly of iron and carbon. It is often used in construction, machinery, and transportation. Based on this information, the most appropriate caption for metal steel would be (H) a close up of a metal plate with a pattern of lines. This caption describes the texture and appearance of steel, which is often characterized by its distinctive pattern of lines. The other options do not accurately describe steel or its unique qualities. Therefore, among A through J, the answer is (H) a close up of a metal plate with a pattern of lines." Table 20: VWSD as QA problem example, with CoT prompting encouraging the selection of the correct can- didate. Questions Q are presented truncated. brace" fails to be returned: when GPT-3.5-turbo is prompted with Q, it has a hard time retrieving rele- vant knowledge, answering that it does not under- stand where the "tender embrace" phrase refers to, and that more information is needed. By observing the captions comprising the answer choices of the question Q, we confirm that the extracted caption for the golden candidate (C) is sensible and accu- rate ("a student gets a hug from a student"); thus, GPT-3.5-turbo cannot connect the phrase "tender embrace" with the correct caption (C), leading to