Optimization Methods for Personalizing Large Language Models through Retrieval Augmentation Alireza Salemi University of Massachusetts Amherst United States asalemi@cs.umass.edu Surya Kallumadi Lowe’s Companies, Inc. United States surya@ksu.edu Hamed Zamani University of Massachusetts Amherst United States zamani@cs.umass.edu ABSTRACT This paper studies retrieval-augmented approaches for personaliz- ing large language models (LLMs), which potentially have a substan- tial impact on various applications and domains. We propose the first attempt to optimize the retrieval models that deliver a limited number of personal documents to large language models for the purpose of personalized generation. We develop two optimization algorithms that solicit feedback from the downstream personalized generation tasks for retrieval optimization–one based on reinforce- ment learning whose reward function is defined using any arbitrary metric for personalized generation and another based on knowledge distillation from the downstream LLM to the retrieval model. This paper also introduces a pre- and post-generation retriever selection model that decides what retriever to choose for each LLM input. Extensive experiments on diverse tasks from the language model personalization (LaMP) benchmark reveal statistically significant improvements in six out of seven datasets. CCS CONCEPTS • Computing methodologies →Natural language generation; • Information systems →Learning to rank; Personalization. KEYWORDS Ranking optimization; retrieval-augmented generation; personal- ization; text generation ACM Reference Format: Alireza Salemi, Surya Kallumadi, and Hamed Zamani. 2024. Optimization Methods for Personalizing Large Language Models through Retrieval Aug- mentation. In Proceedings of the 47th Int’l ACM SIGIR Conference on Re- search and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR ’24), July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https: //doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Personalization has been extensively explored by information re- trieval (IR), recommender systems, and human-computer interac- tion communities, particularly in the context of information access [17, 36, 51]. Even though the recent advancements in large lan- guage models (LLMs) have revolutionized various applications, the Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s). SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn Figure 1: An overview of retrieval augmentation approaches for LLM personalization. First, the query function 𝜙𝑞pro- duces a query from the input 𝑥. Relevant personal informa- tion is then retrieved and fed to the personalized prompt generation function 𝜙𝑝for LLM consumption. existing commercial and open-source LLMs exhibit a significant limitation by failing to tailor their generated outputs according to the backgrounds and historical preferences of their users. As LLM- powered conversational agents become more prevalent, the need for LLM personalization becomes increasingly apparent [43]. LLM personalization has diverse applications, from customizing educa- tional content and curating news feeds to improving e-commerce suggestions and delivering personalized healthcare information. Various approaches