arXiv:2411.11895v1 [cs.IR] 7 Nov 2024 DEPLOYING LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS WITH RETRIEVAL AUGMENTED GENERATION Sonal Prabhune and Donald J. Berndt University of South Florida Tampa, Florida, USA {saprabhune@usf.edu, dberndt@usf.edu} ABSTRACT Knowing that the generative capabilities of large language models (LLM) are sometimes hampered by tendencies to hallucinate or create non-factual responses, researchers have increasingly focused on methods to ground generated outputs in factual data. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a key approach for integrating knowledge from data sources outside of the LLM’s training set, including proprietary and up-to-date information. While many research papers explore various RAG strategies, their true efﬁcacy is tested in real-world applications with actual data. The journey from conceiving an idea to actualizing it in the real world is a lengthy process. We present insights from the development and ﬁeld-testing of a pilot project that integrates LLMs with RAG for information retrieval. Additionally, we examine the impacts on the information value chain, encom- passing people, processes, and technology. Our aim is to identify the opportunities and challenges of implementing this emerging technology, particularly within the context of behavioral research in the information systems (IS) ﬁeld. The contributions of this work include the development of best practices and recommendations for adopting this promising technology while ensuring compliance with industry regulations through a proposed AI governance model. Keywords Retrieval Augmented Generation · Large Language Models · AI Governance · Human Artiﬁcial Intelligence Systems 1 Introduction Recently, the landscape of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) has changed drastically. With the emergence of large language models and their capabilities of generating textual responses based on various prompting techniques. A recent article by Bloomberg Intelligence (BI) [1] on the explosive growth of generative AI in the next decade predicts, “With the inﬂux of consumer generative AI programs like Google’s BARD and OpenAI’s CHATGPT, the generative AI market is poised to explode, growing to $1.3 trillion over the next 10 years from a market size of just $40 billion in 2022.” As we develop cutting-edge applications that use large language models, we must explore the various possibilities, understand the shortcomings, and develop ways to circumvent any obstacles to ensure a reliable human-artiﬁcial intelligence system. There are different approaches, even within the narrow scope of implementing a solution, that use a large language model (LLM) to retrieve information from proprietary unstructured documents. Current approaches for retrieving information from unstructured text include ﬁne-tuning an LLM, parameter efﬁcient ﬁne-tuning approaches such as LORA [2], preﬁx tuning [3], prompt tuning [4], p-tuning [5], various approaches in prompt engineering such as zero- shot [6], few-shot [7], chain-of-thought [8] and REACT [9]. It is essential to understand the business case and apply appropriate approaches, often requiring experimentation such as prototyping and evaluating what works best. Various libraries and tools have emerged to support the fast development of LLM systems based on information retrieval from proprietary data. [10] [11] [12] These tools enable the LLMs to behave as agents, [13] function as reasoning engines, and invoke various tools supplied to the LLM