Work in Progress TEAL: TOKENIZE AND EMBED ALL FOR MULTI- MODAL LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS Zhen Yang∗Yingxue Zhang∗Fandong Meng Jie Zhou WeChat AI, Tencent Inc. {zieenyang,yxuezhang,fandongmeng,withtomzhou}@tencent.com ABSTRACT Despite Multi-modal Large Language Models (MM-LLMs) have made exciting strides recently, they are still struggling to efficiently model the interactions among multi-modal inputs and the generation in non-textual modalities. In this work, we propose TEAL (Tokenize and Embed ALl), an approach to treat the input from any modality as a token sequence and learn a joint embedding space for all modalities. Specifically, for the input from any modality, TEAL firstly discretizes it into a to- ken sequence with the off-the-shelf tokenizer and embeds the token sequence into a joint embedding space with a learnable embedding matrix. MM-LLMs just need to predict the multi-modal tokens autoregressively as conventional textual LLMs do. Finally, the corresponding de-tokenizer is applied to generate the output in each modality based on the predicted token sequence. With the joint embedding space, TEAL enables the frozen LLMs to perform both understanding and gen- eration tasks involving non-textual modalities, such as image and audio. Thus, the textual LLM can just work as an interface and maintain its high performance in textual understanding and generation. Experiments show that TEAL achieves substantial improvements in multi-modal understanding, and implements a simple scheme for multi-modal generations. 1 INTRODUCTION Recently, Multi-Modal Large Language Models (MM-LLMs), which perform understanding and generation tasks more than textual modalities, have made exciting strides and garnered significant attention for their potential in Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC) (Cao et al., 2023). MM-LLMs are considered a step closer to Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) (Goertzel & Pen- nachin, 2007; Fei et al., 2022) due to their provision of more user-friendly interfaces and their ability to perceive the world similarly to humans (Yin et al., 2023). Typically, there are two main different branches in the realm of constructing MM-LLMs: One branch aims to construct a ‘real‘ multi-modal model by training the model with multi-modal data from scratch, without relying on the pre-trained textual LLMs (Borsos et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2022a; Barrault et al., 2023; Shukor et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2023c; Copet et al., 2023); The other branch takes the textual LLMs as the backbone and enables them to perform multi-modal understanding and generation tasks with instruction tuning. With the rapid advancement of textual LLMs, researchers are keener on the second branch of ap- proaches which empowers the pre-trained high-performance textual LLMs with multi-modal abil- ities. In this line, some typical works, such as BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2023), Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022), MiniGPT-4 (Zhu et al., 2023), LLama-Adapter (Gao et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023c), LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023b;a), SpeechGPT (Zhang et al., 2023a), involve employing adapters that align pre- trained encoders in other modalities to textual LLMs. As these works take the dense features from the pre-trained encoders as additional non-textual information, they cannot efficiently model the in- teractions among multi-modal inputs and falter in the nuanced art