QAs overlap. QA Filtering can be application and metadata specific, and other high-dimensional approaches such as Determinantal Point Processes (DPP) [25] are left for future work, together with the automated discovery of metadata topics and self-correcting QA- generation [26]. 3.3 Generation of Meta Knowledge Summary For a given combination of metadata, we create a Meta Knowledge Summary (MK Summary) aiming at supporting the data augmen- tation phase for a given user query. For our research papers use case, we limited our metadata to the specific field of research (such as reinforcement learning, supervised vs unsupervised learning, bayesian methods, econometrics, etc.) identified during the docu- ment processing phase by Claude 3 Haiku. For this research, we create the MK Summary by summarizing the concepts across a set of questions tagged with the metadata of interest using Claude 3 Sonnet. An alternative left for future work is that of prompt tuning to optimize for the content of the summary prompt [27]. 1The dataset was filtered using the following categories on the Arxiv API: "stat.ML", "stat.TH", "stat.AP", "stat.ME", "math.ST", "cs.AI", "cs.LG", "econ.EM". Thank you to arXiv for use of its open access interoperability. 3.4 Augmented Generation of Queries and Retrieval Given a user query and a set of pre-selected metadata of interests, we retrieve the corresponding pre-computed MK Summary and use it to condition the user query augmentation into the database subset. For our research paper benchmark, we created a set of 20 MK Summary corresponding to research fields (e.g. deep learning for computer vision, statistical methods, bayesian analysis, etc.), re- lying on the metadata created in the processing phase. We leverage the "plan-and-execute" prompting methodology to address com- plex queries, reason across documents, and ultimately improve the recall, precision, and diversity of the provided answers [28]. For example, for a user query related to the Reinforcement Learning research topic, the pipeline will first retrieve the meta knowledge (MK Summary) about Reinforcement Learning of the database, aug- ment the user query into multiple sub queries based on the content of the MK Summary, and perform a parallel search in the filtered database relevant for manufacturing questions. For this purpose, the synthetic Questions are embedded, and replace the original documents chunk-based similarity matching, therefore mitigating the information loss due to document chunking discontinuity. Once the best match of a synthetic question is found, the correspond- ing QA are retrieved, together with the original document title. Only the document title, the synthetic question, and the answer are returned as a result of the retrieval. We use JSON formatting for downstream summarization performance. The final response of the RAG pipeline is obtained by providing the original query, the augmented queries, the retrieved context and few shot examples (see Figure 1). 4 EVALUATION 4.1 Generating Evaluation Queries To evaluate our data-centric augmented retrieval pipeline, we gener- ated 200 questions for the arXiv dataset using Claude 3 Sonnet (see Appendix C). In addition, we compared our methodology against traditional document chunking, query augmentation with docu- ment chunking, and