pinpoint potential mis- takes in the reasoning and assessing the completeness of internal and external knowledge. To explore the necessity of these two cat- egories of metacognitive knowledge, we conduct ablation studies by eliminating the assessment of internal or external knowledge for procedural knowledge or exclude a type of common error as- sessment linked to declarative knowledge. The findings, depicted in Table 3, highlight that stripping away any facet of metacognitive knowledge detrimentally impacts per- formance across all evaluation metrics. Among these, the omission of procedural knowledge results in the most pronounced decline in model efficiency. This suggests a heightened importance of under- standing the interplay between internal and external knowledge, WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, & Zhicheng Dou 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 Similarity Threshold k 0.38 0.40 0.42 0.44 0.46 0.48 0.50 0.52 Score EM F1 Precision Recall 0 20 40 60 80 100 Metacognitive Proportion (%) (a) Similarity Thresholds. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Max Number of Iterations 0.40 0.42 0.44 0.46 0.48 0.50 0.52 Score EM F1 Precision Recall (b) Number of iterations. Figure 4: Performance with different similarity thresholds and the number of iterations on 2WikiMultihopQA. as this understanding is crucial for the model’s strategic planning. Within the procedural knowledge category, it’s evident that rec- ognizing external knowledge stands out in terms of importance. This underscores the idea that many questions arise from an in- sufficiency in external knowledge. Thanks to the architecture of MetaRAG, this deficiency can be alleviated, leading the model to generate new queries for knowledge acquisition. When we turn our focus to declarative knowledge, each type of common error bears significance to the overall model efficacy. Notably, errors stemming from incomplete reasoning seem to be most impactful. This implies that conventional QA prompts cannot effectively harness the multi- hop reasoning abilities of LLMs. However, with the inclusion of metacognitive knowledge, this latent potential can be harnessed, thereby refining the model’s reasoning precision. 6.4 Performance of Each Planning Strategies During the planning phase, we employ improvement strategies for three distinct scenarios: insufficient knowledge, conflicting knowl- edge, and erroneous reasoning. To validate the effectiveness of these strategies, we conduct experiments to measure the enhancements each scenario could offer. We categorize all questions into three scenarios based on the conditions of knowledge, and examine the impact of the planning approach on each scenario. Figure 5 shows the performance of various models in the three scenarios. Generally, as the richness of knowledge increases, the accuracy of each model improves. The ReAct and Reflexion models enhance the performance in situations of insufficient knowledge through employing multi-time retrieval and critic mechanisms. However, the improvement in scenarios of conflicting knowledge and complete knowledge is relatively marginal. In contrast to these two methods, our proposed MetaRAG significantly boosts the ac- curacy of reasoning in these two scenarios. This achievement is primarily attributed to MetaRAG’s meticulous analysis of conflicts between internal and external knowledge and common error types through a