nificant experts, thereby improving the deployment efficiency of MoE models. Unlike existing post-training weight pruning schemes for LLMs, which primarily target un- structured sparsity and N:M semi-structured spar- sity (Sun et al., 2023; Frantar and Alistarh, 2023), our approach focuses on expert-level sparsity for model sparsification. The aforementioned fine- grained weight pruning techniques are effective in reducing the total number of parameters. However, they face challenges in plug-and-play deployment due to the necessity for specific hardware designs (e.g., FPGA) (Zhou et al., 2021), which demands an extensive co-design of hardware and systems. In this paper, we systematically explore expert- level sparsity in MoE LLMs and, for the first time to our best knowledge, introduce hardware-friendly post-training methods for either permanently re- moving unimportant experts (expert pruning) or dynamically skipping experts during inference (dy- namic expert skipping). Our proposed method arXiv:2402.14800v2 [cs.CL] 30 May 2024 significantly reduces memory usage for deploying MoE LLMs and enhances their inference speed. Initially, we investigate how to prune less impor- tant experts while maintaining satisfactory perfor- mance, utilizing an efficient post-training approach. We aim to minimize the token reconstruction loss in a layer-by-layer manner. Given the limited number of experts in a single MoE layer of the LLM, we meticulously enumerate and choose combinations of experts that yield the lowest token reconstruction loss, subsequently, concatenating them to obtain the final pruned MoE model. This strategy signifi- cantly lowers the memory demands for deploying MoE LLMs. We examine expert-level pruning for both task-agnostic and task-specific (first in liter- ature) models, tailoring our strategies to optimize performance across a wide range of applications. Building on this foundation, we further dive into strategies for accelerating the inference speed of MoE LLMs without compromising their robust- ness. Specifically, based on the model’s fixed ex- pert count, we introduce an online method for dy- namically skipping certain experts. This approach, which is complementary to our expert pruning strat- egy, allows for on-the-fly adjustment of the number of active experts during inference, thus enhancing the inference speed. By integrating the dynamic (expert) skipping approach with expert pruning, we achieve a more streamlined and efficient deploy- ment for MoE LLMs. Experiments on Mixtral 8x7B (Instruct) mod- els (Jiang et al., 2024) demonstrate that our meth- ods significantly reduce memory usage and in- crease inference speed. Take the example of post- training pruning two experts. As shown in Fig. 1, we halve the number of GPUs needed, allowing deployment on a single 80G GPU and achieving a 1.2× inference speedup. The pruning also results in mild performance loss, specifically, around 2.9 points for task-agnostic and 6.2 points (reducible to 1.6 with task-specific fine-tuning) for task-specific models. Further combination of dynamic skipping with expert pruning can lead to the same inference speedup with dropping 4 experts while achieving much higher model performances. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to discuss expert-level sparsity and propose efficient schemes for expert pruning and skipping for MoE LLMs. 2 Related Works 2.1 Mixture-of-Experts