iteration. Irrelevant retrieved paragraphs are not shown in the table for brevity. achieves significantly higher recall, indicating that LLM generations can help bridge the semantic gaps between complex questions and their supporting knowledge. However, performance quickly hits a plateau afterwards. 4.6.2 ITER-RETGEN Leverages Parametric and Non-Parametric Knowledge Better Ideally, an LLM should flexibly utilize non- parametric knowledge or parametric knowledge depending on whether in-context non-parametric knowledge is relevant or not. Table 5 presents per- formance breakdowns on different subsets of ques- tions for investigation. We considered the ability of CoT to answer a question correctly without re- trieval as a proxy for assessing an LLM’s capability to answer the question using its parametric knowl- edge. Compared with Self-Ask, ITER-RETGEN tends to be significantly better at preserving the LLM’s performance on questions that the LLM can solve using CoT without retrieval, while being com- petitive on the complementary subset. This may be because the structural constraints from Self-Ask makes an LLM over-sensitive to the precision and comprehensiveness of follow-up question genera- tion and answering, and Self-Ask is also incapable of processing all retrieved knowledge as a whole, thus reducing the LLM’s flexibility in solving a question. Moreover, ITER-RETGEN consistently outperforms Self-Ask by a large margin, regardless of whether the in-context non-parametric knowl- edge mentions the answers or not. This indicates that when the in-context non-parametric knowledge is irrelevant or incomplete, ITER-RETGEN exploits parametric knowledge better than Self-Ask. 4.7 Error Analysis On HotPotQA, we manually analyzed 20 random cases where ITER-RETGEN (T = 2) fails. 25% of predictions are false negatives. On 10% of cases, ITER-RETGEN retrieves all necessary information but fails to perform correct reasoning. The remain- ing 65% of error cases are related with retrieval, on 76.9% of which, retrieval is misled by completely wrong reasoning from the first iteration, while on the other cases, reasoning in the first iteration is partially correct, but the retriever fails to retrieve the missing pieces in the second iteration. We also observed that, in the first iteration, reasoning can be negatively affected by noisy and possibly distrac- tive knowledge retrieved using only the questions as the queries. 5 Case Study Table 7 demonstrates retrieval-generation synergy with two examples from HotPotQA and Strate- gyQA, respectively. In the first iteration, as both questions need multi-hop reasoning, the retriever fails to retrieve all supporting knowledge using only the questions. Despite being affected by distrac- tive retrieved knowledge (the capacity of a different arena in the example from HotPotQA) and show- ing imperfect parametric knowledge (the generated statement that Raclette is unlikely to be found in Paris in the example from StrategyQA) in the first iteration, the LLM generates phrases that help re- trieve relevant knowledge in the second iteration, and successfully corrects its outputs. 6 Conclusion We demonstrate the effectiveness of ITER-RETGEN in answering questions with complex information needs. Despite simple, ITER-RETGEN outper- forms retrieval-augmented methods that have a more complex workflow, which we believe could serve as a strong baseline for future research on retrieval-augmented