et al. (2023) [3] has evaluated the effectiveness of GPT-4 in answering Quran-related questions and highlighting challenges in context understanding and answer accuracy. However, their work is limited by its reliance on a general-purpose LLM without domain-specific fine-tuning, which affects responce precision for nuance religious queries. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has been succesfully applied in general knowledge such as medical domains to mitigate these issues [4], and legal domain such as research conducted by Pipitone and Alami (2024) [5] introduced LegalBench-RAG to evaluate retrieval accuracy in legal question-answering tasks. While significant progress has been made across these domains, challenges related to data quality, retrieval precision, domain- specific adaptation, and computational efficiency persist. This study builds upon these works by benchmarking open-source LLMs using the RAG framework to address the challenges in Quranic knowledge retrieval [6] while highlighting the balance between model size, performance, and efficiency. Using LLMs in religious or culturally sensitive environments has certain challenges [7], including ensuring the accuracy, contextual relevance, and authenticity of the generated responses. These issues are particularly significant when engaging with content derived from religious texts, as distortion or hallucination may result in misunderstandings and a loss of faith in AI systems [8]. This paper examines the role of LLMs in quranic studies [9]. We use a dataset from a book about the 114 surahs of the www.ijacsa.thesai.org 1 | P a g e arXiv:2503.16581v1 [cs.CL] 20 Mar 2025 (IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2025 Qur’an [10], rather than the Qur’an text itself. This dataset provides thorough information about each surah, including meaning, provenance of revelation, and historical context. Descriptive insights are essential for offering relevant and accurate answers to questions regarding quranic studies. Since Qur’an is the sacred revelation that remains intact in today’s world without any human involvement, and the Qur’an is the only source to link human beings with their creator, an attempt to identify the reliable and trustworthy LLMs is really important. As they provide useful resources for the readers, accuracy and truthfulness must be given due importance while exploring the provided information from such sources. In order to overcome the difficulties associated with hal- lucination and accuracy, we have implemented a framework known as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [11], [12], [13]. This method integrates LLM semantics with a vector database to retrieve relevant data from descriptive datasets [14], [15]. The RAG method guarantees that responses derive from authoritative sources that are contextually appropriate, thereby reducing the probability of delivering content that is unsubstantiated or irrelevant. Citations are supplied in each response, which enables users to trace the information back to the descriptive dataset. This further enhances the level of trust and transparency [16]. The objectives of this research are threefold: (1) to compare 13 open-source LLMs in terms of their ability to respond accurately and faithfully to questions about quranic studies [17], (2) to assess the effectiveness of the RAG approach in reducing hallucination and ensuring response relevance [18], and (3) to provide