Our goal is to ultimately increase the quality of the end-to-end retrieval pipeline across multiple metrics, such as depth, coverage, and relevancy, by enabling complex reasoning across the database through tailored searches and the leverage of meta knowledge information. Importantly, our approach does not rely on any model weights update, and may very well be combined with any fine-tuning of either the language or the encoding models to any domain to further improve the performance of the end-to- end RAG pipeline [22]. We represent our methodology pipeline in Figure 1, and describe the synthetic QA generation process and the concept of MK Summary below. 3.1 Datasets Our public benchmark use case comprises a dataset of 2,000 re- search papers from 2024, collated using the arXiv API. This dataset represents a diverse spectrum of research in statistics, machine Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, Mombaerts, et al. learning, artificial intelligence, and econometrics1, for a total of approximately 35M tokens. 3.2 Synthetic QA Generation First, for each document, we generate a set of metadata and subse- quent QA using CoT prompting (see Appendix A). The prompt aims at creating a list of metadata by classifying the documents into a predefined set of categories (such as research field, or applications types for our research papers benchmark). Relying on these meta- data, we generate a set of synthetic questions and answers, using teacher-student prompting and assess the knowledge of the student on the document. We specifically leverage Claude 3 Haiku for its long-context reasoning abilities and potential to create synthetic QA pairs with context spanning across documents. The generated metadata serve both as filtering parameters for the augmented search, and to select the synthetic QA used for the users queries augmentation in the form of meta knowledge information (MK Summary). In addition, the synthetic QA are used for the retrieval, but only questions are vectorized for downstream retrieval. For our public scientific research papers use case, a total of 8657 QA were generated from the 2000 research documents, accounting for 5 to 6 questions for 70% of cases, and 2 questions in 21% of cases. Exam- ples of synthetic questions and answers are provided in Appendix B. The total number of token generated as parts of the processing step amount to approximately 8M output tokens, corresponding to a total of $20.17 for the entire processing pipeline of all 2000 documents (including input tokens) using Amazon Bedrock [23]. We investigated the redundancy of the generated QA across the document using hierarchical clustering on the embedding space of the questions using e5-mistral-7b-instruct [24], but did not de- duplicated the generated QA for our use cases due to the low QAs overlap. QA Filtering can be application and metadata specific, and other high-dimensional approaches such as Determinantal Point Processes (DPP) [25] are left for future work, together with the automated discovery of metadata topics and self-correcting QA- generation [26]. 3.3 Generation of Meta Knowledge Summary For a given combination of