work Limitations One potential challenge of applying C-RAG practically could be the collection of calibration data. In practice, the user input texts are sampled from a time-series data distribution. Therefore, accessing in-distribution calibration samples requires collecting real-time query samples, which could pose the challenge of computational resources and system latency. Another potential limitation may lie in the probability of the guarantee. Since C-RAG can only provide a high-confidence risk bound via conformal risk analysis, generations with excessive risks can exist. Therefore, we may need more calibration samples to counter for a higher confidence level, and thus mitigate the appearance of outliers to a large extent. Also, although the analysis in C-RAG shows the benefits of a large external knowledge base to a low conformal generation risk, the large knowledge base may induce a larger time complexity of KNN searching and space complexity of storing the examples, leading to a trade-off between the generalization/utility and inference efficiency. Future work One interesting future work is to provide conformal risk analysis for time-series data. Conformal prediction for time series (Zaffran et al., 2022; Xu & Xie, 2021; Stankeviciute et al., 2021) adaptively adjusts the prediction coverage for sequential data for the regression and classification task. However, the adaptive risk calibration for time series is unexplored but important to practical deployments. Therefore, conformal risk analysis for time series can further motivate the application of conformal risk analysis for LLMs. Further discussions on calibration data collection. In principle, if test and calibration instances are from the same distribution, randomly sampling from this distribution with a sufficient sample size Ncal already provides competitive generation risk guarantees (Proposition 1 and Theorem 1). Otherwise, if sampling from the test distribution is impractical, we should sample instances from a proposal distribution with a small distribution distance (ρ) to the test distribution and sample variance ( ˆV ) so the distribution of the calibration set mimics that of test data (Theorem 2). We can further use the following techniques for calibration data selection: (1) rejection sampling: drawing samples from a proposal distribution and then rejecting some of these samples based on the known criterion of the test distribution, (2) importance sampling: adjusting the sample weights to closely match the target distribution, and (3) variance reduction such as input normalization. To exemplify, consider a composite domain with medical support, wiki question answering, and service assistance fields, where only a broad proposal distribution is available. We can leverage the strategies mentioned above as follows. We can (1) reject out-of-scope samples, (2) perform importance sampling by adjusting the sample weights based on the proposal distribution and the test distribution, and (3) normalize samples to minimize the distribution gap and variance, for instance, through a unified prompt reformulation. To improve the probability of the risk guarantee given fixed sample sizes, one can seek advanced concentration analysis with additional constraints on data distribution, which may lead to tighter risk bounds in practice. B. Additional related work Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) is a framework for improving