evaluating what works best. Various libraries and tools have emerged to support the fast development of LLM systems based on information retrieval from proprietary data. [10] [11] [12] These tools enable the LLMs to behave as agents, [13] function as reasoning engines, and invoke various tools supplied to the LLM to generate the required outcome. In addition, the LLM itself can be used to evaluate the efﬁcacy of these generated outcomes. What remains for those implementing the Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) system is to make the right choices of these tools and to design a system that is most effective Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented Generation for their particular use cases. As simple as this might seem, the complexity arises from needing to implement such a system at scale while conforming to the industry’s regulatory standards. As with any emerging technology, there is a lag between advancements in large language models (LLMs) with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), and their adoption and implementation in the industry. We believe that valu- able insights can be gained from the practical application of RAG with LLMs, which can help advance research and facilitate the next breakthroughs. This paper seeks to share these learnings and bridge the gap between the challenges encountered in the industry and the issues being tackled by researchers. We draw parallels between the challenges mentioned in a recent paper [14], which discusses key aspects of human interactions with AI systems, and those we encountered in our ﬁeld study. We suggest best practice recommendations for organizations venturing into the space of generative AI with RAG. We hope that this paper, detailing our challenges and insights, will not only serve as a valuable guide for organizations planning to implement RAG-based solutions using LLMs but also provide researchers with a deeper understanding of the real-world challenges faced in the industry when adopting new technology. The structure of this paper is as follows: We begin by exploring the research efforts aimed at enabling LLMs to adapt to domain-speciﬁc contexts, focusing on ﬁne-tuning and prompt engineering. Following this, we delve into the work conducted with RAG to date. We then provide the background for our ﬁeld study and detail the design of the pilot project, discussing the various challenges faced by the industry in developing such a system and the wide array of choices available for each component of the RAG system. Next, we outline the implementation of our pilot project, including the design choices and our approach to execution. We also address the importance and challenges of evaluating such a system, reviewing the different evaluation strategies, including those we employed. Our ﬁeldwork insights, best practices, and the necessity of AI governance are discussed subsequently. Finally, we examine the implications of deploying these systems in production, with a particular focus on the challenges of human-artiﬁcial intelligence collaboration, to promote the development of robust, reliable, and compliant AI solutions across various industries. The paper concludes with a summary of our ﬁndings. 2 Related Work Prior to