thus missing the globally optimal chunk combination order. To address these challenges, we design a policy tree to organize the combination space and formulate the chunk combination order selection task as an optimal node search problem in the policy tree. We employ an MCTS-based search algorithm that strategically explores only a small subset of promising paths instead of enumerating all possibilities. The key insight is that MCTS iteratively expands and evaluates nodes along high-potential paths, accumulating node benefits through backpropagation, and ultimately returns the node with the highest reranker-assigned benefit among the explored paths. Unlike greedy selection, MCTS’s exploration mecha- nism ensures that nodes with initially lower individual benefits can still be discovered if they lead to superior combinations. A. Policy Tree Search Modeling Policy Tree. As illustrated in Figure 3, we construct a policy tree to represent all possible orders of chunk combinations retrieved from the vector database. The root node corresponds to the initial state with no selected chunks, while each child node is generated by appending one additional chunk to the or- dered sequence represented by its parent node. Thus, each non- root node corresponds to an ordered combination of chunks, incrementally built through this process. For example, if a node represents the combination Φv1 = ⟨χ1⟩, its child nodes may correspond to ordered extensions such as Φv2 = ⟨χ1, χ2⟩, Φv3 = ⟨χ1, χ3⟩, or Φv4 = ⟨χ1, χ4⟩. Remark. The entire policy tree does not need to be constructed and typically only a small portion of it is dynamically ex- panded during our MCTS-based search process. Optimal Node Search Modeling. Each non-root node vi in the policy tree T represents a chunk combination order Φvi, whose corresponding cost and benefit are denoted as cost(Φvi) and W(Φvi), respectively, as defined in Sec. II. Therefore, the task described in Definition 2 can be refor- mulated as searching for the node within the cost budget B that yields the highest benefit. Formally, this is expressed as: ˆvi = arg maxvi⊆T, cost(Φvi)≤B W(Φvi). B. MCTS-Based Policy Tree Search Enumerating all possible nodes in the policy tree T is infeasible due to the exponential growth of the search space. To efficiently explore this space, we employ an MCTS-based approach that incrementally expands nodes to construct a partial tree TMCTS, from which a solution can be derived without full enumeration. In each iteration, the algorithm selects nodes to expand, evaluates their potential, and uses the evaluation results to guide the next round of search. To incorporate cost constraints and improve efficiency, we design a cost-aware node utility function to guide node selection and introduce a parallel evaluation mechanism to accelerate the scoring process. Cost-aware Node Utility U(v). Because exhaustive explo- ration is infeasible, we guide the search with a UCB-style [52] heuristic that balances exploitation and exploration while accounting for cost. For each node v, the algorithm maintains the cumulative reward V (v) (aggregated over historical visits) and the visit count N(v). We use Nparent(v) to denote the visit count of