information from an external database to enrich the model’s knowledge during inference. This task-agnostic design allows UniRAG to benefit various image- text tasks, including VQA, image captioning, im- age generation, and Optical Character Recogni- tion (OCR), by incorporating semantically relevant image-text pairs as few-shot examples. 3 Methodology UniRAG adopts a two-stage retrieval and genera- tion workflow that is explained below: 3.1 Retrieval The retrieval stage is where for a given query its top k most relevant candidates are extracted from a VL database. In this stage query and candidate modalities can be any combination of {text, image} →{text, image}. Specifically, for an image-to-text task such as caption gener- ation, the query is an image, and retrieved candi- dates are captions; while for a text-to-image task (e.g., image generation), the query is a caption and retrieved candidates are images. To use image-text pairs as in-context examples in the next stage, we need to convert the retrieved single-modality candidates into pairs. This involves treating each retrieved candidate as a query to find its complementary candidate based on two criteria: a) it must have the opposite modality (text for an image candidate and vice versa) and b) it must dif- fer from the original query to prevent revealing the ground-truth answer. The retriever models used for our experiments are further explained in Section 4. 3.2 Generation The generation stage is where the LVLM gener- ates the required output in zero-shot (Kojima et al., 2023) or few-shot (Brown et al., 2020) settings. Similar to the retrieval stage, in the zero-shot set- ting (baseline 1), the query is only present in the input prompt; while in the few-shot setting, in- context examples are additionally included in the prompt. In this setting, examples are obtained using one of the following methods: 1) random selection of queries and their ground-truth candidates from the dataset (baseline 2); 2) in-context RAG with retrieved candidate pairs from the previous stage. We leverage various LVLMs for caption and image generation tasks, as detailed in Section 4. 4 Experimental Setup 4.1 Selected Models We use UniIR’s CLIP Score Fusion (CLIP-SF) and BLIP Feature Fusion (BLIP-FF) models as VL re- trievers. Experimental results from the original paper indicate that these instruction-tuned UniIR models significantly outperform their pre-trained CLIP and BLIP2 baselines across various tasks and configurations, including image and caption retrieval tasks (Wei et al., 2023). To generate appropriate text captions for im- ages, we use the LLaVA (13B) (Liu et al., 2023b), Gemini-Pro (Team et al., 2024), and GPT-4o (Ope- nAI et al., 2024) models. Table 1 presents sample captions generated by these models in zero-shot, random few-shot, and RAG few-shot settings (re- trieved by CLIP-SF and BLIP-FF). LLaVA is an open-source LVLM based on Vi- cuna (Chiang et al., 2023), utilizing CLIP as its visual encoder. It is fine-tuned on VL instruction- following data generated by GPT-4 (Liu et al., Image Query Top retrieved image-caption pair (k = 1) Zero-shot CLIP-SF BLIP-FF Random Prompt - Black and white photograph of two