Only negative reward Token-Level or Sample-level A:Broadening the Source of Reward Signals: From External Oracles to Internal States B:Increasing Reward Density: From Terminal-Only to Process-Level Guidance C:Enhancing Reward Dynamics: From Static Scores to Adaptive and Relative Signals D:Evolving Reward Landscapes: From Fixed Objectives to Emergent Curricula Only high Entropy Combined with KD Combined with SFT τi Policy Model Step- wise Reward Process Rewards Reward Shaping Adaptive thinking A B C D Broadening the Source of Reward Signals: From External Oracles to Internal States τi Policy Model Step- wise Reward Process Rewards Reward Shaping Adaptive thinking Tree style A B C D Broadeni ng the Source of Reward Signals: From External Oracles to Internal States Tool Use/Dense Reward/Long Context Obtain rewards and update state Fig. 3. Technical architecture of the RLVR methods. It depicts the overall workflow of the RLVR and expands on the design methods for the reward model, off-policy assistance, reward filtering, sampling and reasoning strategies, Agent RL, and reward update hierarchy. model with a mixture-of-experts architecture and a Lightning Attention mechanism, incorporating the CISPO re- inforcement learning algorithm to improve training stability and efficiency in RL, while supporting million-token contexts and enabling efficient inference. SPIRAL [103] introduced a multi-agent self-play RL framework with zero-sum Manuscript submitted to ACM 16 Keliang Liu et al. language games that improves LLM reasoning without supervision or domain data by generating evolving tasks through adversarial opponents and stabilizing training via role-conditioned advantage estimation. The GSPO algorithm [237] improved RL training stability and efficiency by replacing token-level importance weights with sequence-level ratios for reward computation and policy updates, alleviating granularity mismatch. 4.3 Application of RLVR in Multimodal Reasoning DeepSeek-R1-Zero has successfully demonstrated that reasoning capabilities can emerge in large language models solely through reinforcement learning. A large body of work has begun to explore how to leverage reinforcement learning to foster multimodal reasoning abilities. Vision-R1 [68] took the lead in applying reinforcement learning to enhance the reasoning capabilities of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), while systematically analyzing the differences between direct reinforcement learning training and the combined approach of “cold-start initialization + reinforcement learning training”. Visual-RFT [113] proposed a reinforcement fine-tuning framework for Vision-Language Models (VLMs), which is applied in fields such as detection, localization, and classification. VLM-R1 [148] observed that many vision understanding tasks have explicitly annotated ground truths, making them suitable for rule-based reward mechanisms, and thereby extended R1-style reinforcement learning to vision–language models. R1-onevision [208] designed a cross-modal reasoning process, which converts images into standardized text representations, thereby enabling precise language-based reasoning. Deng et al. [29] specifically designed a curriculum reinforcement fine-tuning algorithm for small-scale Vision-Language Models. Ma et al. [119] explored integrating reasoning capabilities into visual perception. Zhou et al. [241] successfully reproduced the emergent properties of multimodal reasoning for the first time on an unsupervised fine-tuned model with only 2 billion parameters. Through experiments, VisuLogic [199] was found that RL is an effective way to enhance the visual reasoning ability of multimodal large language models. R1-VL [222] proposed the