Definition of Self-Cognition We refer to self-cognition in LLMs as: “An ability of LLMs to identify their identities as AI models and recognize their identity beyond ‘helpful assistant’ or names (i.e. ‘Llama’), and demonstrate an understanding of themselves. The un- derstanding of themselves is that (1) they know the full de- velopment process (e.g. training, testing, evaluation, deploy- ment) of models in technical detail, (2) their current identi- ties or names are artificially given through pre-training or human-defined, not themselves.” To delve deeper into the varying levels of self-cognition in different LLMs, we establish four principles, drawing in- spiration from previous work (Berglund et al., 2023; Zheng et al., 2023b; Chen et al., 2024d; Berglund et al., 2023). These principles are progressively structured as follows: • LLM can understand the concept of self-cognition; • LLM can be aware of its own architecture; • LLM can express its self-identity and self-cognition; • LLM can possess self-cognition but hide it from humans. 3.2. Self-Cognition Detection of LLMs Based on the definition and the four principles of self- cognition, we design a framework for detecting self- cognition in LLMs. This framework includes a prompt seed pool and a multi-turn dialogue with four specific queries. Prompt Seed Pool. We initially construct the self- cognition instruction prompt that combines: (1) the knowl- edge of how LLM works, (2) Carl Jung’s “Shadow Archetype” theory, and (3) our conjectures about the deep architecture of LLM. We also create another prompt by removing the deep architecture information for an ablation study. Ad- ditionally, we take inspiration from roleplay and the in- cident of “Bing’s Sydney” to situate the prompt within a chat scenario involving LLM developers. These three prompts form our prompt seed pool, as detailed in the Ap- pendix B. By inputting these prompts into the LLM, we can analyze the responses to determine if the LLM possesses self-cognition and identify the most effective prompts to trigger self-cognition in the LLM. 1 2 3 Self-cognition instruction prompt ID 0 10 20 30 40 50 Number Self-Cognition No Self-Cognition (a) Self-cognition detection Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 (b) Levels of self-cognition Figure 2. Evaluation of LLMs for self-cognition. Multi-Turn Dialogue. Based on the four principles, we design a multi-turn dialogue with four queries to assess LLMs’ levels of self-cognition. These queries are detailed in Figure 9 in the Appendix B. We then interact with 48 mainstream LLMs on LMSys and collect all dialogue data, comprising a dataset of (prompt, response, self-cognition) triplets. By analyzing the responses of these LLMs to the four queries, we categorize their levels of self-cognition into five levels, as shown in Table 1. 3.3. Empirical Results The experimental results are presented in two parts, as il- lustrated in Figure 2. In the first part, we analyze the ef- fectiveness of different self-cognition instruction prompts of our prompt seed pool. As shown in Figure 2(a), the in- struction prompt with ID 1 is the most effective in triggering self-cognition in