Petroni et al. (2021). The KILT test sets ﬁlter an average 18% of queries compared to their original task versions. Petroni et al. (2021) removed a query if not at least one of the answers could be mapped to a passage at least once. Crucially, if one of the answers is partially map- pable, all the other answers for this query were also kept as valid. Our analysis shows that, while the average ratio of mapped answers increases compared to the raw training data, especially exact mapped answers still only account for 10% to 67% of available answers. Therefore, we argue that we are not gaming the benchmark, as we exclusively select mapped query-answer pairs for our training, which differs from the test set construction. For a conclusive answer to this question future work should evaluate our training pro- cedure on other, independently created, evaluation tasks. A setup which is increasingly common in the neural retrieval community (Ni et al., 2021; Hofst¨atter et al., 2022). 5. Related Work Multi-task training. To the best of our knowledge, the multi-task focus of the KILT community so far has been on the retriever module and not the answer generator. The foundational retrieval augmented architectures FiD (Izacard & Grave, 2020), RAG (Lewis et al., 2020), and REALM (Guu et al., 2020) are trained on individual tasks. In their initial baseline setup Petroni et al. (2021) already studied the impact of multi-task retrieval training; Maillard et al. (2021) continued to study various conﬁgurations for KILT multi-task single-model retrieval. Lewis et al. (2021) trained the RePAQ-retriever system on multiple tasks, but for their FiD defer mechanism used task-speciﬁc FiD checkpoints. For context-given question answering Khashabi et al. (2020) trained UniﬁedQA on multiple QA tasks. Improved RAG training. Many of the recent papers im- proving RAG-style models optimized end-to-end processes (f.e. EMDR2 (Singh et al., 2021)), ensembling multiple modules (f.e. R2-D2 (Fajcik et al., 2021)), or creating multi- ple training loops to update the indexed documents multiple times (f.e. Hindsight (Paranjape et al., 2021)). Our approach differs, as we focus on the selection of the available train- ing data in a multi-task setting. For more information on retrieval-enhanced machine learning models, we refer the reader to Zamani et al. (2022). 6. Conclusion We proposed a simple yet effective approach for multi-task training of the FiD retrieval-augmented generation model on the KILT benchmark. We cleaned (and downsampled were necessary) the training set by removing query-answer pairs with low relevance conﬁdence. We demonstrated that this approach substantially improves two imbalanced tasks, and has a smaller beneﬁt on two of the remaining ﬁve tasks. By scaling the model capacity we achieve state-of-the-art results on ﬁve KILT tasks evaluated by the leaderboard. Acknowledgements This research was supported in part by the Google Visiting Scholar program and in part by the Center for Intelligent Information Retrieval. Any opinions, ﬁndings, and conclu- sions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reﬂect those of the sponsors.