we systematically evaluate existing MIAs [2, 26, 29] across various detection mechanisms and show that prior attacks completely break down against these detection strategies (Section 4). We then introduce Interrogation Attack (IA), a MIA which is: • Effective: Achieves high precision and recall. • Black-box: Does not rely on access or knowledge of the underlying retriever/generator models. • Stealthy: Comprises only of natural-text queries that are not flagged by detection systems. • Efficient: Requires as few as 30 queries to the RAG system. IA leverages the intuition that natural queries, when crafted to be highly specific to a target document, can serve as stealthy member- ship probes for RAG systems (Section 5). Inspired by the doc2query task in Information Retrieval (IR) lit- erature [17, 37], we employ established few-shot prompting [8] techniques to guide an LLM in creating queries that are both top- ically aligned with and uniquely answerable by the target docu- ment. These queries capture fine-grained and nuanced information specific to the target document, enabling us to subtly exploit the behavior of the RAG system in an undetectable manner. We then issue these queries to the RAG system, with document 𝑑∗being the target for membership inference. Since these queries are highly rel- evant to the target document, a well-performing RAG will retrieve and incorporate 𝑑∗(if available) to generate accurate answers. We can thus verify the correctness of these answers to probe mem- bership. Aggregating signals from multiple queries enables strong membership inference. Crucially, each query remains benign, avoid- ing direct requests for verbatim content or displaying suspicious “jailbreaking” patterns, ensuring the attack remains undetectable by any detection systems. https://platform.lakera.ai We conduct extensive experiments across multiple datasets and RAG configurations by varying retrieval and generation models (Section 6). While existing attacks are either detected easily or lack potency, we achieve successful inference while remaining virtu- ally indistinguishable from natural queries, with detection rates as low as 5%, compared to upwards of 90% for most inference at- tacks against RAG. Finally, we analyze our attack’s failure cases (Section 7) and find that RAG may often be unnecessary: in many instances, the underlying LLM can answer questions about a given document without direct access to it, thereby questioning the ne- cessity of a RAG-based system for such scenarios. Code for our ex- periments is available at https://github.com/ali7naseh/RAG_MIA. 2 Background and Related Work In this section, we describe the components of a RAG system (Sec- tion 2.1), revisit membership inference for machine learning (Sec- tion 2.2), and discuss recent works on privacy leakage in RAG systems in (Section 2.3). 2.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) Let G be some generative LLM, with some retriever model R, and D denote the set of documents part of the RAG system S. Most real-world systems that deploy user-facing LLMs rely on guardrails [10] to detect and avoid potentially malicious queries. One such technique that also happens to benefit RAG systems [3, 28, 31, 35, 50] is “query rewriting", where the given query 𝑞is transformed before being