a discriminative component to identify corruptions at the to- ken level, which indirectly beneﬁts from ﬁner-grained text representations. For most of these works, however, the pri- mary focus has been on token-level tasks rather than specif- ically addressing character composition understanding. With regards to more recent LLMs, there have been a num- ber of works that highlight their downsides from various angles. For example, (Qian et al., 2022) claims that LLMs struggle with arithmetic and symbolic manipulations, while (Lee & Lim, 2024) shows that LLMs fail to learn phys- ical manifestation of language, such as the visuals and sounds of the language. (Truong et al., 2023) also shows that LLMs’ performances degrade when negation is in- volved. With regards to the character composition, there have been a few attempts to benchmark the performances of LLMs (Srivastava et al., 2022; Efrat et al., 2022), although the scope of evaluating character composition was highly restricted, with stronger emphasis on evaluation of word- level understanding. 3. Experiments 3.1. Setting We perform simple tasks that are designed to assess the LLM’s understanding of character composition of words. Nearly all tasks are simple and straightforward with hardly any component for complexity or confusion. It would be fair to state that even humans with very little educational background of up to elementary school can solve most of these tasks without difﬁculty. Word retrieval: We provide the LLM with input text and ask it to retrieve all words containing a certain character. For example, “Find all words that contain the character h in the following text: She is home.” should output “She” and “home”. The task may be examined in variations by specifying the position or the number of occurrences of the characters within a word. Character insertion / deletion / replacement: We ask LLM to insert a character to words in the input text at a speciﬁed position, or delete a speciﬁed character or any character at a speciﬁed position from the input text, or re- place a character with another character. For example, “In- sert the character a to the beginning of all words in the fol- lowing text: I am well” should output “aI aam awell,” and similarly for deletion and replacement. Character reordering: We provide the LLM with words and ask it to reorder the characters within each word to form a new word, in a similar manner to anagram, e.g., generate “epics” from the input word “spice.” The output is deemed correct if it contains all characters in the input word with the same number of occurrences. Note that there is no restriction as to whether new word should be an exist- ing word, as long as all characters have been used. Character counting: We provide the LLM with input text and ask it to count the number of certain characters or a category of characters, such as vowels and consonants. For example, “How many occurrences of the character s are in the following word: obsessed?” should return 3. We experimented with