result pooling. The CNN often iterates over a query-document similarity ma- trix of pretrained word embedding cosine similarities. The second phase com- bines the results for each query term using, for instance, a dense feedforward network. The combination results in a relevance score for the query-document pair, which is then used for ranking. For instance, the prominent PACRR model [12] implements the matching layer with a CNN that is max pooled over ﬁlters, then k-max pooled over query terms to pick out the most salient signals. Then, the results are combined with a dense combination phase. Gen- erally, these neural models have been shown to be competitive with conven- tional ranking techniques due to their ability to learn matching patterns (e.g., bigrams, trigrams, skipgrams) from the training data, and combine the results in a meaningful way. Other prominent interaction-focused architectures in- clude DRMM [9], MatchPyramid [26], K-NRM [34], Duet [21], DeepRank [27], Conv-KNRM [4], and Co-PACRR [13]. In this work, we choose to modify a neural ranking architecture because preliminary work has shown them to be more eﬀective than conventional approaches out-of-the-box [22] and they can easily incorporate new techniques and information speciﬁc to this task. Specif- ically, by default no rankers consider facet utility, and in this work we show how this can be incorporated into a neural ranking model. 2.3 Wikipedia and Knowledge Graphs Since knowledge graphs encode which entities are related to one another, they may be valuable when identifying paragraphs with low-utility facets. There have been many eﬀorts to organize Wikipedia information into a knowledge Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 7 q0 q2 q3 q4 q5 q6 q7 q8 q9 d0 ... d1 d2 d3 dn document query main inter. title q0 q2 q3 q4 q5 q6 q7 q8 q9 matching (e.g. CNN) d0 ... d1 d2 d3 dn document query main inter. title combination (e.g. dense) rel. score + contextual vectors (a) general neural ranker (b) contextual vectors matching (e.g. CNN) combination (e.g. dense) rel. score q0 q2 q3 q4 q5 q6 q7 q8 q9 d0 ... d1 d2 d3 dn document main inter. title (c) heading independence combination (e.g. dense) matching (e.g. CNN) matching (e.g. CNN) matching (e.g. CNN) rel. score query q0 q2 q3 q4 q5 q6 q7 q8 q9 matching (e.g. CNN) d0 ... d1 d2 d3 dn document query main inter. title combination (e.g. dense) rel. score (d) knowledge graph scores doc. entities e0 ... e1 e2 e3 en Fig. 3 (a) General ranking architecture, with matching and combination phases (unmodi- ﬁed). (b) Modiﬁed architecture, including contextual vectors for combination. (c) Modiﬁed architecture, splitting for heading independence. (d) Modiﬁed architecture, including knowl- edge graph scores in the combination layer. graph. Prominent eﬀorts have been the DBPedia [1] and Freebase [2]. Re- searchers have found that query expansion using knowledge bases can improve ad-hoc retrieval [6, 33]. Others have investigated how to include knowledge graph features directly in learning-to-rank approaches [29]. Other eﬀorts have been in how to train embeddings