Asai et al., 2023). However, prompt cannot materi- ally change the ability of LLMs to utilize retrieved texts because model parameters are not updated for this ability. Some methods fine-tune LLMs on the constructed RAG data for a specific task such as QA (Yoran et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023). However, under the trend that LLMs are regarded as founda- tion models for various tasks in zero-shot setting, fine-tuning LLMs only on a few tasks make LLMs limited to the RAG of training tasks and lose their generalizability. Because catastrophic forgetting still exists in supervised fine-tuning of LLMs (Luo et al., 2023). Although constructing data for a large number of tasks can alleviate this, it is hard to de- sign the data in various RAG tasks and requires high data annotation costs. Our paper aims to fun- damentally improve the ability of LLMs to utilize retrieved texts while preserving the generalizability of LLMs for various RAG tasks in zero-shot setting, which is orthogonal to prompt techniques and can be combined with them to get better performance. In this paper, considering that LLMs have a cer- tain ability to use their own knowledge to examine information (Dhuliawala et al., 2023), we intro- duce a novel perspective to reassess the role of LLMs in RAG. Specifically, we propose consider- ing LLMs as “Information Refiner”. The key idea behind this is to continue training the pre-trained LLMs with an Information Refinement objective that regardless of the correctness, completeness, or usefulness of the input retrieved texts, LLMs can consistently integrate knowledge within the re- trieved texts and model parameters to generate the texts that are more concise, accurate, and complete than the retrieved texts (Figure 1). We term this process “Positive Information Gain”. This enables LLMs to extract correct information from complex texts as well as resist and rectify retrieved erro- neous information and noise, thereby improving the information bottleneck of the RAG and allow- ing the knowledge capacity of RAG to approximate the combined knowledge of IR and LLMs. We make the information refinement training work in a completely unsupervised manner, such that it is easy to obtain large-scale training data and maintain the generalizability of the trained LLMs that can be used in various RAG tasks in zero-shot setting. Specifically, we propose an unsupervised training method named INFO-RAG. INFO-RAG classifies the retrieved texts into three scenarios (shown in Figure 1) and proposes the unsupervised training task for each scenario. For the first sce- nario that all knowledge for the question is already in the retrieved texts, LLMs need to accurately ex- tract relevant knowledge from complex retrieved texts and generate more concise texts. For the sec- ond scenario that retrieved texts are incomplete or incorrect for the question, LLMs need to combine the knowledge within model parameters to verify the retrieved texts, correct the wrong knowledge, and complete the missing knowledge. For the third scenario that retrieved texts are relevant but do not have any answer, LLMs need to find the