specifically designed to assess the importance of the retrieved content. Their findings suggest that by pruning or re-weighting parts of the retrieval corpus, RAG systems can enhance their performance without requiring additional training rounds. In scenarios where the retrieval corpus is limited, approaches such as Selfmem [117] construct a memory pool from LLM-generated results, using an iterative selection framework to enhance generative quality. SAIL [118] forms an instruction-tuning dataset based on retrieval outcomes, fine-tuning LLMs to ground responses in reliable content while excluding distracting elements. In conclusion, the generation stage within RAG focuses on bolstering the quality and efficiency of LLM-driven con- tent generation. These methodologies continually evolve to maximize the potential of LLMs in generating context-aware, accurate, and efficient responses for RAG. B. Limitations of traditional RAG Although researchers have extensively explored traditional RAG, there are still some unresolved limitations due to the constraints of the data structure itself. 1) Complex query understanding: Traditional RAG faces significant challenges in precisely answering complex queries, mainly due to the intrinsic limitation of its knowledge organi- zation (vector database). Given a query, these RAG methods only retrieve semantically similar chunks, within which the local contextual information may be insufficient to answer multi-hop questions. This limitation becomes more pronounced as chunk granularity decreases, making it challenging to handle domain knowledge, which often requires multi-hop reasoning for effective understanding. Some traditional RAG methods 6 have attempted to improve the complex query understanding, such as enhancing queries before retrieval [41], enhancing multiple query candidates for re-ranking [42], and using related metadata to provide richer information [35]. However, these methods are still limited by the chunking style of knowledge organization and are challenging to capture multi- hop information in complex queries effectively. 2) Distributed domain knowledge: Domain-specific queries often involve jargon that requires contextual comprehension. However, domain knowledge is typically sparsely distributed across various documents and data sources. Although RAG uses chunking to divide documents into smaller pieces to manage this complexity and improve indexing efficiency, it sacrifices critical contextual information, significantly reducing retrieval accuracy and contextual understanding. Additionally, vector databases store the text chunks without a hierarchical organization of vague or abstract concepts, so it becomes difficult to resolve such queries, reducing the efficiency of utilizing expertise in specific domains. Some current traditional RAG works continuously align retrieved content with real-time generation states [119], and introduce external APIs to provide dynamic and rich auxiliary information [120]. While these approaches enhance RAG’s understanding of dispersed domain knowledge, they still rely on the traditional chunking method for knowledge organization, which cannot fully address distributed domain knowledge. This limitation restricts their ability to construct robust connections between pieces of knowledge. 3) Inherent constraints of LLMs: Traditional RAG often uses the vector similarity-based retrieval module, which usually lacks effective filtering of the retrieved contents from vast knowledge bases, providing excessive but maybe unnecessary information. Considering the inherent constraints of LLMs, such as the fixed context window (typically 2K-32K tokens) [1], [23] and the challenge of fully capturing long-range dependencies