[40] Zexuan Zhong, Tao Lei, and Danqi Chen. 2022. Training Language Models with Memory Augmentation. In EMNLP. Association for Computational Linguistics, 5657–5673. [41] Chunting Zhou, Graham Neubig, Jiatao Gu, Mona T. Diab, Francisco Guzmán, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Marjan Ghazvininejad. 2021. Detecting Hallucinated Content in Conditional Neural Sequence Generation. In ACL/IJCNLP (Findings) (Findings of ACL), Vol. ACL/IJCNLP 2021. Association for Computational Linguis- tics, 1393–1404. [42] Yujia Zhou, Zhicheng Dou, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2020. Encoding History with Context-aware Representation Learning for Personalized Search. In SIGIR. ACM, 1111–1120. WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, & Zhicheng Dou APPENDIX A IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS A.1 Model Selection • gpt-35-turbo-16k API: https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions • Expert monitoring model: https://huggingface.co/gaussalgo/ T5-LM-Large_Canard-Fullwiki-HotpotQA. • Similarity model: https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/ all-MiniLM-L6-v2. • NLI model: https://huggingface.co/google/t5_xxl_true_nli_mixture. A.2 Categorize the Question During the task exploration phase, we employed a human annota- tion approach to categorize the questions. We recruited 10 graduate students specializing in information retrieval. For each question, we provided five retrieved documents and one closebook answer generated by an LLM. The annotators were tasked with assessing: • Quality of Closebook Answers from the LLM: They deter- mined whether the LLM’s closebook answer could satisfactorily address the question (can/cannot). • Knowledge Completeness of Retrieved Documents: They evaluated whether the retrieved documents contained sufficient information to answer the question (can/cannot). Based on these assessments, we used a voting mechanism among the annotators to categorize each question into one of the four types outlined in Section 3.2. In the actual reasoning phase, the categorization is supported by the evaluator LLM and NLI model. The evaluator LLM assesses the internal knowledge (i.e., the LLM’s own understanding and the quality of its closebook answer), while the NLI model evaluates the external knowledge. This dual evalua- tion helps determine whether the LLM has the necessary internal knowledge and whether the external information is adequate to formulate a correct response. B THE ROLE OF EXPERT MODEL • Role of the Expert Model: The expert model in our system is not used as a provider of ground-truth answers but rather as a benchmark for monitoring the consistency and potential correctness of answers. In our experiments, we found that no single model, including the expert model, can consistently deliver perfect answers. However, we observed that when the responses of ChatGPT and the fine-tuned expert model align closely, the likelihood of the answer being correct increases. This alignment serves as a crucial indicator to assess whether an answer is likely to be accurate or requires further refinement. • MetaRAG’s Performance Relative to the Expert Model: In Section 6.2, we conducted tests to evaluate the impact of using expert models of varying quality. Our findings indicate that the performance of MetaRAG is indeed influenced by the quality of the expert model. A higher-quality expert model tends to enhance the effectiveness of MetaRAG. However, it’s important to note that MetaRAG’s functionality extends beyond merely replicating the expert model’s answers. Instead, MetaRAG leverages the expert model as part of