are excluded, we ﬁlter unjudged para- graphs from the ranked lists (i.e., we perform a condensed list evaluation). The condensed list evaluation is a better comparison for methods that were not included in the evaluation pool [28]. Indeed, PACRR with the heading position and heading frequency contextual vectors outperforms the all other approaches, and signiﬁcantly outperforms the unmodiﬁed PACRR model in terms of MAP and nDCG. Interestingly, the knowledge base approaches per- form signiﬁcantly worse than the unmodiﬁed PACRR in terms of R-Prec when unjudged paragraphs are included. However, when unjudged paragraphs are not included, it performs signiﬁcantly better in every case. In fact, the version that uses entity extraction when calculating entity scores performs best overall in terms of MAP and nDCG. This shows that these approaches are eﬀective, and likely rank paragraphs that are relevant yet unjudged high (reducing the score when unjudged documents are included). When considering automatic relevance judgments, heading independence and the heading frequency contextual vector signiﬁcantly outperforms un- modiﬁed PACRR, and performs best overall in every metric. However, the performance when evaluating with manual judgments does not signiﬁcantly outperform unmodiﬁed PACRR. Since training is also conducted using au- tomatic relevance judgments, this may be caused by PACRR overﬁtting to this sense of relevance. Interestingly, when the knowledge graphs features are added to this approach, performance drops with automatic judgments, but increases with manual judgments. This suggests that these features are useful for determining human-classiﬁed relevance. 5 Analysis In this section, we investigate several questions surrounding the results to gain more insights into the behavior and functionality of the approaches to CAR detailed in Section 3. 5.1 Characteristics of heading positions Our approaches assert that heading positions (i.e., title, intermediate, and main heading) act as a signal for heading utility. In Section 4.2 we showed that including the heading position as either the heading position contextual vector or via and heading independence improves performance beyond the 6 On average, there are 42 manual relevance judgments for the 702 queries that were manually assessed. 7 Unjudged evaluation is unavailable for the sequential dependency model and Siamese attention network. 18 Sean MacAvaney et al. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Density Main Intermediate Title Term occurrence rate Fig. 6 Kernel density estimation for main (solid), intermediate (dashed), and title (dotted) heading term occurrence rates, based on automatic judgments in train.fold0. baseline neural architecture. Here, we test the hypothesis that terms found in diﬀerent heading positions exhibit diﬀerent behaviors in relevant documents. We use the term occurrence rate to assist in this analysis. We deﬁne term occurrence rate occ(h) for a given heading h as the probability that any term in a given heading appears in relevant paragraphs. More formally: occ(h) = P p∈rel(h) I(∃t ∈p|t ∈h) |rel(h)| where rel(h) is the set of relevant paragraphs for p and I is the indicator func- tion. Although the term occurrence rate only accounts for a single binary term match within relevant documents,