documents; (2) retrieval augmented generation (RAG): utilize retrieved documents to generate new documents to answer questions. We only show three iterations in this figure for brevity. Solid arrows indicate RAG within an iteration, and dashed arrows indicate GAR between iterations. Purple represents correct and useful information, and red represents wrong or invalid information. 2.3. Retrieval Augmented Generation Following previous work [13], for a given question q, we could directly prompt large language models to generate re- lated documents without retrieving them from an external cor- pus. However, we find that if only the parametric knowledge learned by the large model in the pre-training stage is used, the generated documents may be incomplete. Retrieval aug- mented generation (RAG) aims to comprehensively under- stand the retrieved non-parametric knowledge and the para- metric knowledge inside large language models to generate more accurate factual knowledge. Specifically, we propose two strategies, which will be described in detail below. 2.3.1. Refine An intuitive idea is to refine the previously generated docu- ment yt−1 based on the original question q and the retrieved top-k documents at the current iteration step Rt to obtain a new document yt. We call this method refine. Considering that the document retrieved in the last iteration Rt−1 has been used to generate the last document yt−1, we refine the previ- ous output yt−1 with updated documents Rupdate. Rupdate = Rt −Rt−1, (1) yt = M (prompt (yt−1, q, Rupdate)) , (2) where Rupdate means that these documents are only retrieved in the current iteration, not in the last iteration, M denotes a well pre-trained large language model. If Rupdate is an empty set, we do not regenerate a new document and set yt = yt−1. 2.3.2. Refresh In order to avoid the negative effect of errors or hallucinations in the previously generated document yt−1, we do not use yt−1, which is used in refine. We refresh the memory and let the large language models directly generate the document yt based on the retrieved document Rt and the original question q. This method is named refresh. yt = M (prompt (q, Rt)) (3) Both refine and refresh are implemented through prompts. We give the prompt corresponding to refresh. Prompt for refresh with all documents In the following task, you should write a document that contains the answer to the question. Passage: {Rt} Question: {q} Document: {yt} 3. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 3.1. Datasets We evaluate the effectiveness of ITRG on four open domain question answering datasets, including Natural Questions (NQ) [15], TriviaQA [16], 2WikiMultiHopQA [17] and Hot- potQA [18]. Following previous works [19, 20], we randomly sub-sample 500 examples from each dataset due to the cost of running experiments. We evaluate our method in 0-shot, 1-shot and 5-shot settings. The few-shot demonstrations are randomly sampled from the data that is not involved in the evaluation process. 3.2. Baselines GPT-3.5 [21] We use text-davinci-002 and text-davinci-003 as our baselines. Text-davinci-002 is an InstructGPT model while Text-davinci-003 is trained with reinforcement learn- ing with reward models trained