retrieval. We followed Salemi et al. [43] for prompt templates (i.e., 𝜙𝑝) for each dataset in LaMP. They are listed in Table 2. In all experiments, the process of creating personalized prompts for evaluating models involves retrieving four items from the user pro- file. In crafting documents from each user profile, we adhere to the approach established in [43], appending the date of the document to it. The date is prefixed with date: [date]. For implementing BM25, we use the rank_bm25 library.6 All the neural models in this paper are implemented using the PyTorch library [38]. Baseline Methods. We compare the proposed approaches against the following retrieval models for personalized text generation. • No Personalization: We employ FlanT5-XXL [8] as a non- personalized baseline. In this baseline, the model is presented with the original task’s input without any modification. 6https://github.com/dorianbrown/rank_bm25 SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. Alireza Salemi, Surya Kallumadi, and Hamed Zamani • Personalized Baselines: Following Salemi et al. [43], we utilize BM25 [41], Recency, and Contriever [19] to retrieve items from the user profile for LLM personalization. There are, of course, many other neural ranking models that may outperform these baselines on some retrieval benchmarks. However, it is important to note that our optimization approaches can be applied to any neural ranking model, including any missing baseline from this list. That being said, we do not aim at comparing different model architectures, instead we aim at demonstrating the impact of our optimization methods. Note that no other retrieval models have ever been used on LaMP and, to the best of our knowledge, this list consists of all methods in the retrieval-augmented LLM per- sonalization literature. Furthermore, we apply Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) [9] to integrate the retrieval lists generated by all the retrievers. This fusion-based approach is employed for com- parison with our retriever selection method. Subsequently, we employ these retrieved items to formulate a personalized input prompt for FlanT5-XXL. 6.2 Empirical Results This section provides empirical evidence to answer research ques- tions that shed light into the proposed approaches in this paper. How does personalization using the proposed approaches impact text generation performance? To answer this question, we compare our methods with the non-personalized baseline, i.e., FlanT5-XXL without augmentation with personal information. Ta- ble 3 presents the results on the LaMP benchmark. LLM Personaliza- tion using both ROPG-RL and ROPG-KD improves the performance on LaMP-1, LaMP-2, LaMP-3, LaMP-4, and LaMP-6. After applying the retrieval model selection methods (RSPG-Pre and RSPG-Post), the non-personalized model is beaten on all datasets and in terms of all metrics. The performance gains are statistically significant in almost all cases. This is an important finding in the sense that no personalized baseline could perform better than a non-personalized LLM on LaMP-7, while RSPG-Pre and RSPG-Post demonstrate that personalized LLMs can ultimately demonstrate performance gain on these datasets. This finding also suggests the impact of retrieval augmentation for the purpose of LLM personalization. How do ROPG optimization algorithms impact text genera- tion