MM-REACT InstructBLIP MultiModal-GPT VisionLLM DetGPT LLaVA MiniGPT-4 mPLUG-Owl VideoChat Pengi LLaVA-Med Otter MotionGPT Shikra 3D-LLM GPT4RoI Lynx AnyMAL LISA ASM VisCPM Qwen-VL PointLLM ImageBind-LLM NExT-GPT DreamLLM Xcomposer LanguageBIND LLaVA-1.5 CogVLM Ferret GLaMM Fuyu-8B Monkey SPHINX Video-LLaVA MobileVLM MM1 MoE-LLaVA Mobile-Agent Video-LLaMA Chameleon Woodpecker LLaMA-VID LaVIN Gemini Vary GPT-4V 2022 2023 1-3 4-5 6-7 8-9 10-12 2024 1-3 Kosmos-1 Qwen-VL-Max Kosmos-2 GPT4Tools ViperGPT V* Emu MMICL LTU Publicly Available/Unavailable EmbodiedGPT TextMonkey Fig. 1: A timeline of representative MLLMs. We are witnessing rapid growth in this field. More works can be found in our released GitHub page, which is updated daily. of this field, we write this survey to provide researchers with a grasp of the basic idea, main method, and current progress of MLLMs. Note that we mainly focus on visual and language modalities, but also include works involving other modalities like video and audio. Specifically, we cover the most important aspects of MLLMs with corresponding summaries and open a GitHub page that would be updated in real time. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first survey on MLLM. The following parts of the survey are structured as such: the survey starts with a comprehensive review of the essential aspects of MLLMs, including (1) Mainstream archi- tectures (§2); (2) A full recipe of training strategy and data (§3); (3) Common practices of performance evaluation (§4). Then, we delve into a deeper discussion on some important topics about MLLMs, each focusing on a main problem: (1) What aspects can be further improved or extended (§5)? (2) How to relieve the multimodal hallucination issue (§6)? The survey continues with the introduction of three key techniques (§7), each specialized in a specific scenario: M- ICL (§7.1) is an effective technique commonly used at the inference stage to boost few-shot performance. Another im- portant technique is M-CoT (§7.2), which is typically used in complex reasoning tasks. Afterward, we delineate a general idea to develop LLM-based systems to solve composite reasoning tasks or to address common user queries (§7.3). Finally, we finish our survey with a summary and potential research directions. 2 ARCHITECTURE A typical MLLM can be abstracted into three modules, i.e. a pre-trained modality encoder, a pre-trained LLM, and a modality interface to connect them. Drawing an analogy to humans, modality encoders such as image/audio en- coders are human eyes/ears that receive and pre-process optical/acoustic signals, while LLMs are like human brains that understand and reason with the processed signals. In between, the modality interface serves to align different modalities. Some MLLMs also include a generator to output other modalities apart from text. A diagram of the architec- ture is plotted in Fig. 2. In this section, we introduce each module in sequence. 2.1 Modality encoder The encoders compress raw information, such as images or audio, into a more compact representation. Rather than training from scratch, a common approach is to use a pre- trained encoder that has been aligned to other modalities. For example, CLIP [13] incorporates a visual encoder