the answer. On the other hand, non-relevant answers sometimes do include the facet term (e.g., answer 4). An eﬀective CAR engine needs to account for this. Not all facets exhibit this general behavior. Let’s consider another query: “What is the eﬀect of curdling in cheese production?” (topic: cheese, facet: curdling). Since ‘cur- dling’ is not a general-language term, relevant answers probably need to use the term itself; related entity mentions are probably inadequate and would result in confusing text. We refer to this distinction as facet utility: high-utility facets use language that is speciﬁc to the topic and can be found directly in relevant answers (e.g., ‘curdling’), whereas low-utility facets use general language and requires additional domain knowledge to identify relevant paragraphs (e.g., ‘health eﬀects’). Given these observations, we propose a two-pronged approach to CAR. First, we attempt to predict facet utility. For this, we use both structural information about the query itself, and corpus statistics about how frequently facets are used. Then, to better accommodate low-utility facets, we utilize entity mentions in the candidate answer. To this end, we construct a knowledge graph embeddings using a training corpus, and measure distances between the Question: Is cheese healthy? Topic: Cheese Facet: Health effects Answer 1: Although nutrient levels vary by type of cheese, most cheese are a rich source of calcium, protein, and sodium. Because the primary ingredient of cheese is milk, most of most of the nutritional... Answer 2: Consumption of foods that are high in saturated fat such as cheese are linked with an increase risk of cardiovascular disease. This is due to adverse +underline[effects] to blood lipids and circulating... Answer 3: Cheese has the potential for promoting the growth of Listeria bacteria. This can cause serious infection in an infant and pregnant woman and can be transmitted to her infant in utero or after... Answer 4: Wisconsin is known as "America’s Dairyland" because it is one of the nation’s leading dairy producers, particularly famous for its cheese. Manufacturing, health care, information technology, and... Fig. 1 Hypothetical CAR query with three relevant answers (1-3) and one non-relevant answer (4). Term matches from the topic and facet are underlined. 4 Sean MacAvaney et al. topic entity and the entity mentions. We incorporate both the facet utility estimators and the entity scores into a neural ranking model, and use the model to retrieve complex answers. These approaches yield signiﬁcant improvements over the unmodiﬁed neural ranker, and up to 26% improvement over the next best approach. We then provide a detailed analysis of our results, which shows that, indeed, low-utility facets are indeed more diﬃcult to match, and that our approach improves these results. As one of the ﬁrst comprehensive works on CAR, we expect these insights to guide future work in CAR. 2 Background and Related Work 2.1 Complex Answer Retrieval Complex answer retrieval is a new area of research in IR. In 2017, the TREC conference ran a new shared task focused on CAR [8]. The goal of this