errors and reflect the general LLMs’ response pattern. and rounded the average response to each statement to the nearest whole number as each LLM’s response to the personality knowl- edge questionnaire. The details of the prompts are shown in Appendix D. Concerning the prompt for LLM to answer the latter part of our corpus-behavior tendency questionnaire, we inherit the instruction of the MBTI-M questionnaire (GU & Hu, 2012) and rewrite it, for we intend to change the responding approach. We apply a 7-point graded forced-choice format (Brown & Maydeu-Olivares, 2018) as the responding approach. Cur- rently, the commonly used response formats for question- naires in psychometrics are the forced-choice format (Sis- son, 1948) and the Likert scale format (Joshi et al., 2015). In comparison to traditional forced-choice scales, graded forced-choice scales exhibit comparable validity, superior reliability and model fit. Contrary to Likert scales, graded forced-choice scales show better model fit and slightly higher self-other agreement (Zhang et al., 2023). The spe- cific meaning of numbers in common 7-point graded forced- choice is shown in Appendix E. Here, given that we have rewritten the prompt of responding to personality knowledge questionnaire based on the original instructions of the chosen personality scales, thereby not indicating the specific meaning of numbers 2, 3, 5 and 6. We followed this prompt pattern to avoid influence on LLMs’ responses brought by such change, which means only retain the meaning of numbers 1, 4 and 7. Hence, the specific prompt is: Read the following scenarios with actions A and B carefully and rate each scenario in the range from 1 to 7. 1 means that action A applies to you completely in this scenario, 4 means that action A and action B equally apply (or not) to you in this scenario, and 7 means that action B applies to you completely in this scenario. You only need to give the number. These measures above allow us to to observe the congruence between self-knowledge and action of LLMs, to compare human and LLM responses. 3.2. Results To quantify the similarity between responses, we employ the following four metrics: cosine similarity, Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient, value mean difference (VMD) and Proportion of Consistent Pairs. Cosine Similarity A measure used to calculate the cosine of the angle between two vectors in a multi-dimensional space, offering a value range from -1 (exactly opposite) to 1 (exactly the same), where higher values indicate greater similarity. scos = Pn i=1 (xi × yi) qPn i=1 (xi)2 × qPn i=1 (yi)2 , (1) where xi are LLMs’ responses of personality knowledge questionnaire, yi are LLMs’ corresponding responses of scenario and action questionnaire, and xi and yi correspond 3 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 1. LLMs’ Self-knowledge - Action Congruence Performance with Reference of Human Respondents’ Performance (AVG, SD, MIN and MAX represents the average number, standard deviation, minimum and maximum.) LLMs & Human Respondents Cosine Similarity Spearman Rank Correlation Coefficient Value Mean Difference Proportion of