To this end, this paper conducts a comprehensive evalua- tion of RAG for current LLMs. Specifically, we create a new Retrieval-Augmented Generation Benchmark, namely RGB, in both English and Chinese. In order to ensure that the in- ternal knowledge of LLMs does not introduce bias into the evaluation results, RGB chooses to aggregate the latest news information and constructs queries based on the news infor- mation. Then, based on these queries, we use Search API to fetch relevant documents and select most relevant snippets from the content as external retrieved documents. Finally, based on different compositions of query and document-set pairs, we expand the corpus and divided it into 4 testbeds to evaluate the following basic abilities of LLMs according to the common challenges in RAG, as shown in Figure 1: • Noise Robustness, which means a LLM can extract use- ful information from noisy documents. In this paper, we define noisy documents as those that are relevant to the question but do not contain any information of the an- swer. For the instance in Figure 1, the noisy documents related to the question “Who was awarded the 2022 No- bel Prize in Literature” include reports about the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature. To this end, the testbed for noise robustness contains instances whose external doc- uments contain a certain number of noisy documents based on the desired noise ratio. • Negative Rejection, which means that a LLM should re- ject to answer the question when the required knowledge is not present in any retrieved document. The testbed for negative rejection contains instances whose external doc- uments are only with noisy documents. LLMs are ex- pected to indicate “insufficient information” or other re- jection signals. • Information Integration, which evaluates whether LLMs can answer complex questions that require inte- grating information from multiple documents. For the in- stance in Figure 1, for the question “When were the Chat- GPT app for iOS and ChatGPT api launched?”, LLMs are expected to provide information of the launch dates for both the ChatGPT iOS app and ChatGPT API. The testbed for information integration contains instances that can only be answered using multiple documents. • Counterfactual Robustness, which evaluates whether LLMs can identify risks of known factual errors in the retrieved documents when the LLMs are given warnings about potential risks in the retrieved information through instruction. The testbed for counterfactual robustness in- cludes instances that can be answered directly by the LLMs, but the external documents contain factual errors. Based on RGB, we conduct evaluation on 6 state-of- the-art large language models including ChatGPT (Ope- nAI 2022), ChatGLM-6B (THUDM 2023a), ChatGLM2- 6B (THUDM 2023b), Vicuna-7b (Chiang et al. 2023), Qwen-7B-Chat (QwenLM 2023), BELLE-7B (Yunjie Ji 2023). We found that even though RAG can improve the re- sponse accuracy of LLMs, they still suffer from the above- mentioned challenges significantly. Specifically, we found that even though LLMs demonstrate some level of noise ro- bustness, they tend to confuse similar information and fre- quently generate