Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021) is a bi-encoder dense retriever trained via unsupervised con- trastive learning on large text corpora, providing general-purpose semantic representations for zero-shot retrieval. • FLAN-T5 (Chung et al., 2022) is an instruction-finetuned variant of T5 designed for zero-shot generalization. It employs an encoder-decoder architecture to generate relevance judgments through prompting without retrieval-specific fine-tuning. • E5 (Wang et al., 2022a) models (base and large) are dual-encoder retrieval systems fine-tuned on extensive weakly supervised contrastive pairs. They excel in embedding-based retrieval tasks, explicitly leveraging query and passage instructions for generalized semantic representation. 18 • MonoT5 (Nogueira et al., 2020) is a cross-encoder reranker using the T5 framework to jointly model queries and documents, producing highly accurate relevance scores through generation- based prompting. • Bge (Xiao et al., 2024) employs RoBERTa-based dual encoders fine-tuned with contrastive learning, optimized for stable and accurate dense retrieval without explicit task instructions. • Instructor (Oh et al., 2024) generates task-specific embeddings conditioned on natural language instructions, trained with contrastive learning across diverse NLP tasks, allowing flexible zero- shot application in retrieval and similarity tasks. • Tart-contriever (Asai et al., 2022) extends Contriever with instruction-aware embedding genera- tion via multi-task distillation, enhancing zero-shot retrieval capabilities across varied domains. • GritLM (Muennighoff et al., 2024) integrates generative and embedding-based tasks into a single LLaMA-based instruction-tuned model, achieving state-of-the-art embedding benchmarks while supporting flexible instruction-based retrieval. • Repllama (Ma et al., 2024) fine-tunes the LLaMA-2 model for dense retrieval, leveraging contrastive training on retrieval tasks to encode comprehensive document-level information into embeddings, demonstrating strong zero-shot retrieval performance. F Implementation Details F.1 Human agreement study details To rigorously validate the reliability and effectiveness of our data quality-check procedure, we performed a human annotation study involving expert annotators. We invite 3 collaborators and coauthors to attend the annotation, including 1 senior graduate student, a junior graduate student, and 1 undergraduate student. All three students CS majored and are all familiar with information retrieval tasks to independently assess a subset of our dataset. Annotators were presented with a randomly sampled selection of instruction-query pairs paired with passages including the original positive passages, synthetically generated negative passages, and randomly sampled in-batch negative distractors from MS MARCO. Each annotator independently identified the passage they thought most relevant to the given instruction-query context. To ensure high annotation quality, all annotator underwent training sessions involving clear task instructions and illustrative examples prior to beginning the main annotation task. Then, we feed the same data to the LLM-based annotators, including o3-mini used in this work and other design choices of gpt-4o and gpt-4o-mini. We computed pairwise agreement scores between human annotators and LLMs using Cohen’s Kappa statistics, which measures inter-rater reliability while accounting for agreement occuring by chance. Subsequently, we computed the average consistency between human judgments and predictions from several large language models, including o3-mini, FollowIR-7B, gpt-4o-mini, and gpt-4o. As shown in Figure 4, o3-mini consistently achieved the highest Cohen’s Kappa scores with human annotators, outperforming the other models evaluated. These results underline