to fall short for complex multi-step tasks and long-form genera- tion tasks (Jiang et al., 2023). In contrast, dynamic RAG (Trivedi et al., 2022; Borgeaud et al., 2022; Ram et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023) performs mul- tiple times of retrieval during the generation pro- cess of LLMs. It includes two steps: identifying the optimal moment to activate the retrieval mod- ule (deciding when to retrieve), and crafting the appropriate query once retrieval is triggered (deter- mining what to retrieve). Depending on when and what to retrieve, a variety types of methods have been proposed in this direction. For example, IR- CoT (Trivedi et al., 2022) adopts a global augmen- tation method where retrieval is conducted for each generated sentence, with the latest generated sen- tence used as the query. RETRO (Borgeaud et al., 2022) and IC-RALM (Ram et al., 2023) define a sliding window and trigger the retrieval module based on a preset number of processed tokens, and the last n tokens are used as the query. However, existing dynamic RAG methods face arXiv:2403.10081v3 [cs.CL] 21 Sep 2024 several critical challenges, primarily in determin- ing the optimal timing for retrieval and formulating effective queries when retrieval is triggered. First of all, existing approaches often rely on static rules to decide when to retrieve, neglecting the assess- ment of necessity and potential risks involved. On the one hand, depending on the quality of the input query and retrieval models, unnecessary retrieval augmentation may introduce irrelevant or noisy data to LLMs which could jeopardize the quality of the outputs. On the other hand, conducting retrieval augmentation will inevitably increase the time and computation cost of LLM inference, such cost is unworthy if LLMs can generate correct outputs by themselves. Additionally, the strategies of existing studies in determining what to retrieve often restrict themselves to the LLM’s most recent sentence or the last few tokens. This approach may not capture the model’s real-time information needs since the LLM’s information needs may actually be related to terms that span the entire context. Retrieving documents in this manner is thus suboptimal in many cases. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a new framework, DRAGIN, i.e., Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the Information Needs of LLMs. Our framework is specifically designed to make decisions on when and what to retrieve, based on the LLM’s information needs dur- ing the text generation process. For the timing of re- trieval, we propose RIND: Real-time Information Needs Detection, which considers the LLM’s un- certainty about its own generated content, the influ- ence of each token on subsequent tokens, and the semantic significance of each token. For the formu- lation of retrieval queries, we propose QFS: Query Formulation based on Self-attention, which inno- vates query formulation by leveraging the LLM’s self-attention across the entire context. DRAGIN is a lightweight RAG framework that can be incor- porated into any Transformer-based LLMs without further training, fine-tuning, or prompt engineer- ing. We comprehensively evaluate DRAGIN along with existing dynamic RAG