speech recognition with just 2 hours of speech examples in few-shot finetuning. Open models (BLOOMZ and Whisper) performed poorly w.r.t. to their commercially available coun- terparts. However, fine-tuning with more instruc- 2We benchmarked Jais model on seven datasets using a zero-shot setting. tions may help these open models to achieve closer performance to SOTA and other closed LLMs. C. MSA vs Dialect. The gaps in LLMs’ perfor- mance between MSA and dialectal datasets (e.g., for machine translation (MT) and speech recogni- tion task) are more pronounced, indicating ineffec- tiveness of LLMs for under-represented dialects. D. Hallucination and Data Contamination. GPT models, specially GPT-3.5, suffer from the hallucination problem. We noticed the model insert extra information (e.g., for MT task with Bible dataset) from its parametric memory. Benchmarking LLMs raises concerns about their exposure to existing datasets. In our study, we uti- lized datasets that were released after the cut-off date of GPT’s training (September 2021). More- over, we applied a prompt-based method with guided instructions (Golchin and Surdeanu, 2023) on nine datasets using GPT-4, to determine if datasets are contaminated. Our experiments re- vealed that GPT-4 could not produce any examples from these datasets. To the best of our knowledge, LAraBench is the first comprehensive effort that includes commercial (close) and open source LLMs and evaluates zero- and few-shot settings for a wide range of Arabic NLP and Speech tasks. It is the first to include the evaluation of Whisper and USM models for Arabic ASR and the first to report benchmarks for a standard Arabic TTS generative model. All re- sources and findings of the LAraBench study made publicly available to scale up the effort through our LLMeBench framework (Dalvi et al., 2024).3 2 Tasks and Datasets The LAraBench study was designed with an ambi- tious goal of empowering the research community and practitioners with the most comprehensive eval- uation of LLMs for Arabic NLP and Speech tasks to date. It includes 61 publicly available datasets to support 9 task groups4 discussed below. We briefly describe each task and refer to Appendix A for a comprehensive description of tasks and datasets. Word Segmentation, Syntax and Information Extraction. We explore six sequence tagging tasks: i) word segmentation, ii) POS-tagging, iii) lemmatization, iv) diacritization, v) parsing, and 3https://github.com/qcri/LLMeBench 4Our task categorization is derived from the taxonomy outlined in the list of tracks established by ACL 2022. vi) named-entity recognition (NER), using publicly available datasets. We also include a dialect identi- fication task (e.g., Egyptian dialect) since vocabu- lary, pronunciation, and idiomatic expressions vary across dialects. For our benchmarking we used QADI (Abdelali et al., 2021) and ADI (in-house) datasets. Machine Translation (MT). Machine transla- tion of Arabic is challenging due to morphological complexity and dialectal variations (Durrani et al., 2014; Sajjad et al., 2017). We experiment with AraBench (Sajjad et al., 2020), an extensive suite of data offering 4 coarse, 15 fine-grained and 25 city-level dialect categories. The dataset covers diverse genres such as media, chat, religion, and travel. Sentiment, Stylistic