ability of LLMs by aligning their scoring behaviors with the golden standard assessment. 4 METHODOLOGY We have demonstrated that the scoring behaviors of vanilla fine-tuned LLMs exhibit misalignment with the gold standard assessment. In this section, we propose an alignment fine-tuning (AFT) paradigm to address this problem to enhance their reasoning ability. Specifically, on top the VFT objective LV F T , AFT further introduce an alignment objective L∗ A: LAF T = LV F T + L∗ A. (4) In the following part of this section, we will introduce the design process of L∗ A. 4.1 GENERATE COTS FOR TRAINING DATA To implement AFT, we first need to generate multiple COTs for each question in the training set. For each training example (q, c, a), we first sample k generation results {(ci, ai)}k i=1 from the VFT-LLMs based on the input question q. Then, we divide these generation results into two groups, namely positive group GP and negative group GN, based on the correctness of their answer. Formally, a generation results (ci, ai) belongs to GP if ai = a, otherwise it is part of GN. Generally, the quality of COTs in the positive group GP is better than that of GN. 4 Preprint 4.2 ALIGNMENT As demonstrated by our pilot experiment, VFT-LLMs fail to give reasonable scores to COTs in GP and GN. To align the scoring behaviors of LLMs with the golden standard assessment, we need to design an objective to let the scores of all positive COTs in GP larger than that of negative COTs in GN. This objective bears resemblance to contrastive learning, which aims to ensure that the score of positive example is larger than those of all negative examples, utilizing an InfoNCE loss: LInfoNCE = −log " exp(scp θ ) exp(scp θ ) + P cn∈GN exp(scn θ ) # = log " 1 + X cn∈GN exp(scn θ −scp θ ) # (5) Intuitively, minimizing Equation 5 aims to make the positive score scp θ larger than all negative scores. However, since there is more than one positive example in GP , inspired by (Su et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022), we extend LInfoNCE to accommodate multiple positive examples: LA = log  1 + X cp∈GP X cn∈GN exp(scn θ −scp θ ) | {z } alignment term   (6) where sc θ is the average log-likelyhood score of the COT c calculated by Equation 2. Minimizing LA encourages all positive scores to be larger than all negative scores. 4.3 CONSTRAINT Nevertheless, although the quality of negative COTs may not be as high as that of positive COTs, they still retain a respectable quality, as they are sampled from fine-tuned, powerful LLMs. We find that reducing their scores by Equation 6 without setting any constraint will result in the degradation of the LLMs. Therefore, we further design two constrained methods, Detached Constraint (DC), and Boundary Constraint (BC) to avoid such catastrophe. 4.3.1 DETACHED CONSTRAINT To prevent model degradation, DC