heading position. Some queries have no intermediate headings. Title Intermediate Heading(s) Main Heading Cheese » (none) » Nutrition and health Green sea turtle » Ecology and behavior » Life cycle History of the United States » 20th Century » Imperialism Disturbance (ecology) » (none) » Cyclic disturbance Medical tourism » Destinations » Europe » Finland Existing work in CAR is relatively limited. Prior to TREC, Nanni et al. [22] investigated baseline approaches using the automatic relevance judgments (assuming only paragraphs found under a heading are relevant to that query). Their approaches include BM25, cosine similarity (both with TF-IDF vectors and word embeddings), a baseline learning-to-rank approach, query expansion, and a deep neural model. They found that the deep neural model Duet [21] outperforms the others. The 2017 TREC CAR task inspired several new approaches to CAR. In this work, we extend our submission to TREC and some follow-up analy- sis [17, 18]. Another top-performing submission uses a Sequential Dependence Model (SDM [20]) for answer retrieval [15]. They modiﬁed the SDM for CAR by considering ordered ngrams that occur within an individual heading com- ponent, and unordered ngrams to terms in diﬀerent headings. This results in a bias toward matching partial phrases that appear in individual head- ings, and reduces processing time for long queries. Another approach uses a Siamese attention network [19]. Features incorporated into this network include abbreviated entity names and lead paragraph entity mentions from DBPedia [1]. Yet another approach uses reinforcement learning query refor- mulation for CAR [25, 24]. The query reformulation step helps the model add terms that make up for low-utility facets. Our approach diﬀers from these 6 Sean MacAvaney et al. by (1) explicitly modeling facet utility to predict which headings are unlikely to appear in relevant documents, and (2) incorporating contextualized entity relatedness measures to improve performance on low-utility facets. 2.2 Neural IR Models Recent advances in neural IR have produced promising results in the ad-hoc domain, making them a potentially useful tool for CAR ranking. Early work on neural IR models focused on building dense representations of texts that are capable of being compared to measure relevance (e.g., Deep Structured Semantic Model (DSSM) [11]). These representation-focused methods are akin to traditional vector space model approaches. While scalable, representation- focused methods suﬀer from loss of term locality information, making certain types of query term matching diﬃcult. More recently, work has shifted to interaction-focused methods that model how query terms appear in relevant documents directly, i.e. what patterns of query terms are typical in relevant documents. These approaches typically use a two-phase approach (see Figure 3a). The ﬁrst phase ﬁnds term matches for a query-document pair, often using a convolutional neural network (CNN) and result pooling. The CNN often iterates over a query-document similarity ma- trix of pretrained word embedding cosine similarities. The second phase com- bines the results for each query term using, for instance, a dense feedforward network. The combination results in a relevance score for the query-document pair, which is then