EMAuto Avg. TokensAuto l EM (%) (a) Control Target Layer Only 1 2 3 4 5 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 4 5 6 7 8 Avg. Tokens (k) EM Avg. Tokens EMAuto Avg. TokensAuto m EM (%) (b) Control Matching Score Only Figure 13. Ablation on target layer and matching score. Impact of various target layer l and matching score m on QA performance and token costs. - For implicit entities (such as objects indirectly referred to by verbs or adjectives, for example, “complainer”, “the criticized behavior”), if they play a semantic role in the context, they should also be extracted as independent entities; - If a noun appears in a compound form (such as “Beijing Municipal Government”, “Grandma of Little Red Riding Hood”), it should be regarded as a whole entity and not be split; - The description of the entity must include the entity name to ensure clarity. For each entity, extract the following information: - entity name: Use the complete expressions that appear in the original text. No translation or annotations are needed. If the name is long but has a clear referential meaning, retain the complete name. Choose the complete form for the first mention. - entity description: Based on the content of the original text, describe the information of the entity in detail. The description should adopt the original sentence order and wording, provide a complete narrative without omitting any details; direct quotations of original phrases or appropriate supplements and analyses can be used, but the scattered information should be linked into a coherent, independent and readable paragraph. It is prohibited to summarize with a single sentence. - attribute: List any additional information that is not mentioned in the description but may be important, such as time, location, status, category, etc. If nothing is available, then skip this item. Extracting Low-order Relations Prompt: For all the entities determined in Step 1, conduct a full-scale pairwise analysis (that is, any two entities form a pair to be tested), and determine whether there are any grammatical or semantic relationships. # Special attention: - The types of relationships include but are not limited to: • Grammatical relationships: subject–verb–object, copular–complement, existential, coordinate, comparative, etc., which are grammatical structure relationships involving two entities; • Semantic relationships: synonymy, causality, sequence, containment, opposition, analogy, influence, etc., which are semantic structural associations involving two entities; • Referential relationships: including explicit and implicit aliases. - Different names of the same entity should also establish a pairing relationship! Including the following two types: • Explicit Alias–Whenever parentheses, quotation marks, dashes, “also known as”, “abbreviation”, “nickname”, or “acronym” are used, immediately capture them as synonymous entity pairs; • Implicit Replacement–Observing the “Reference Chain”: If the pronouns, names, or titles of the same subject change, it can be considered as a potential synonym. For each interrelated entity pair, extract the following information: 22 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory - entities pair: The name of paired entities that