information sources. In contrast to the aforementioned studies, this paper conducts an exploration of The fundamental reasons for causing the model to answer incorrectly in RAG. Drawing inspiration from the domain of cognitive psychology, we integrate metacognitive ability into LLMs to enable the model to be aware of its reasoning process, thus enhancing the quality of answer generation. 3 PRELIMINARY In this section, we formulate the task of retrieval-augmented gen- eration and investigate its limitations on multi-hop QA. 3.1 Task Definition Given a question𝑞and a retrieval corpus 𝐷= {𝑑𝑖}|𝐷| 𝑖=1 (with Wikipedia articles serving as the primary data source in this study), the goal of retrieval-augmented LLMs is to generate an answer 𝑦based on the question as well as the documents retrieved in relation to it. This can be represented as: 𝑦= LLMQA([𝐷𝑞,𝑞], PromptQA), (1) PromptQA: Please act as a question-answering system, answer the {question} based on the {retrieved documents} where 𝐷𝑞is the retrieved documents for the query 𝑞. [·, ·] is con- catenation following designated prompts. LLMQA is the role of the LLM, which concentrates on question answering tasks. 3.2 Task Exploration We conduct an empirical study to evaluate the effectiveness of retrieval-augmented LLMs under various knowledge conditions. Our main aim is to ascertain whether a question can be answered utilizing either the intrinsic knowledge within the LLM or via ex- ternally retrieved documents. Through human annotation of (a) the quality of closebook answers from the LLM and (b) the knowledge completeness of retrieved documents, we are able to categorize questions into four distinct conditions: • No knowledge. Neither the LLM nor retrieved documents can provide an answer correctly. • Only external. Answers can be found in retrieved documents, but not directly from the LLM. • Only internal. The LLM can answer the question directly, but external documents cannot provide the solution. • Both internal and external. The question can be addressed either directly by the LLM or through retrieved documents. For comparison, both standard RAG [2] and ReAct [39] are put to the test on sampled 100 questions from HotpotQA dataset. From Figure 2, Our study yields several insights: (1) When the model operates without any knowledge, it faces difficulty in gener- ating accurate responses. (2) When the model is based only on either internal or external knowledge, there’s a noticeable accuracy im- provement. However, conflicts in the knowledge limit the model’s ability to answer questions correctly. (3) In situations where both internal and external knowledge sources can tackle the question at hand, there’s a marked improvement in the model’s accuracy. Yet, it still isn’t flawless. This suggests that even with complete knowledge, the model can err due to incorrect reasoning. These insights highlight three primary challenges in multi-hop QA when the model fails to answer correctly: insufficient knowledge, con- flicting knowledge, and erroneous reasoning. In subsequent sections, we will delve deeper into how metacognitive strategies can help overcome these challenges. 4 METACOGNITIVE RAG Retrieval augmentation has become one of the primary methods to mitigate the hallucination issues