LM. As for language models, RETRO (Borgeaud et al., 2022) improves language models by retriev- ing tokens. Atlas proposes pretext tasks to jointly train the retriever and language model. However, these two methods focus on the model of encoder- decoder architecture, which is inconsistent with the current mainstream LLMs based on decoder-only. Previous unsupervised training methods do not consider the specific role that language models should play in RAG. In this paper, we focus on training language model as an “Information Re- finer” that can further improve the information bot- tleneck of RAG and be robust to retrieved texts. 3 Our INFO-RAG This section introduces our INFO-RAG, an unsu- pervised training method to enable LLMs to per- form information refinement in RAG. Firstly, we summarize the retrieved texts in RAG into three scenarios and define the positive information gain for each scenario. Secondly, we construct sam- ple pairs in which the output has information gain compared to the input for these three scenarios and design three training tasks. Thirdly, we train LLMs under our designed tasks on the unsupervised sam- ples. Unsupervised training makes INFO-RAG low-cost and general for RAG in various tasks. 3.1 Positive Information Gain in RAG In this paper, we introduce a novel perspective to re- assess the role of LLMs in RAG that LLMs should be the “Information Refiner” that can produce “Pos- itive Information Gain” in the information flow of RAG. This section details the scenarios of retrieved texts and defines specific information gain LLMs should produce in each scenario. Scenario 1. The first scenario is that all knowl- edge for the question is already in the retrieved texts. Even if the correct knowledge already exists in the retrieved texts, complex and lengthy retrieved texts are not conducive for users to directly obtain the knowledge. Therefore, the positive informa- tion gain in this scenario means that LLMs extract correct knowledge as much as possible while re- moving irrelevant information, thereby generating more direct and concise texts for users. Scenario 2. The second scenario is that although the retrieved texts contain some usable knowledge, they still contain some incomplete or incorrect knowledge. This scenario is very common, espe- cially with the current proliferation of fake news, misinformation, and fragmented knowledge on the Internet. There has been study proving that noise and erroneous knowledge in retrieved texts greatly mislead the generation of LLMs (Xu et al., 2023). The positive information gain in this scenario is that LLMs can exploit the knowledge within their parameters to verify the knowledge in the retrieved texts. Utilize accurate knowledge, rectify incorrect knowledge, and complete missing knowledge Scenario 3. The third scenario is that the re- trieved texts do not have any answer that can used to solve the question. This scenario means that the question is very difficult or the target knowledge is very long-tail for information retrieval systems. Even in this case, the retrieval model’s ability to model semantics allows it to provide texts that are semantically related to the