Noname manuscript No. (will be inserted by the editor) Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval Sean MacAvaney · Andrew Yates · Arman Cohan · Luca Soldaini · Kai Hui · Nazli Goharian · Ophir Frieder Received: date / Accepted: date Abstract Many questions cannot be answered simply; their answers must include numerous nuanced details and additional context. Complex Answer Retrieval (CAR) is the retrieval of answers to such questions. In their simplest form, these questions are constructed from a topic entity (e.g., ‘cheese’) and a facet (e.g., ‘health eﬀects’). While topic matching has been thoroughly ex- plored, we observe that some facets use general language that is unlikely to appear verbatim in answers. We call these low-utility facets. In this work, we present an approach to CAR that identiﬁes and addresses low-utility facets. We propose two estimators of facet utility. These include exploiting the hier- archical structure of CAR queries and using facet frequency information from training data. To improve the retrieval performance on low-utility headings, we also include entity similarity scores using knowledge graph embeddings. We apply our approaches to a leading neural ranking technique, and evaluate us- ing the TREC CAR dataset. We ﬁnd that our approach perform signiﬁcantly This is an extended version of “Characterizing Question Facets for Complex Answer Re- trieval. TREC 2018.” [18] Extensions include the use of knowledge graphs to inform model, and an extensive analysis. S. MacAvaney Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University 3700 O St NW, Washington, DC 20057, United States Tel.: +1-202-687-5874 Fax: +1-202-687-7822 E-mail: sean@ir.cs.georgetown.edu A. Yates Max Planck Institute for Informatics A. Cohan · L. Soldaini Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University K. Hui SAP SE N. Goharian · O. Frieder Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University arXiv:1811.08772v1 [cs.IR] 21 Nov 2018 2 Sean MacAvaney et al. better than the unmodiﬁed neural ranker and other leading CAR techniques. We also provide a detailed analysis of our results, and verify that low-utility facets are indeed more diﬃcult to match, and that our approach improves the performance for these diﬃcult queries. Keywords complex answer retrieval · knowledge graphs · neural information retrieval · reranking 1 Introduction It is common to use search technologies to ﬁnd answers to questions. While considerable work has been done on questions that have simple factoid an- swers, less focus has been given to questions with complex answers. Here we deﬁne complex answers as answers that include many details or additional context (making complex answers diﬀerent than factoid answers). Complex Answer Retrieval (CAR) is the process of ﬁnding answers to questions that have complex answers [8]. Note that CAR questions are not necessarily com- plex. A question as simple as ‘Is cheese healthy?’ requires a complex answer: a detailed and nuanced description of positive and negative health eﬀects of cheese consumption is required to satisfy the information need. In contrast, a question such as ‘How much Mozzarella cheese do I need to eat to satisfy my daily requirement of calcium?’ is a complex question with a simple factoid answer.1