Izacard et al. (2022), select positive pairs during contrastive learning by sampling a random portion of a document and treating it as a positive example paired with the full document. This setup explicitly introduces an inductive bias that encourages the model to produce similar embeddings for different fragments of the same document. In practice, as we show in the Results section, even models that are not trained this way still exhibit similar behavior. Inspired by this observation and deep partition-and-aggregation (DPA) defenses Sun et al. (2022), we propose RAGPart. The key idea is to partition a document into N fragments and apply the dense retriever’s embedding model to each fragment individually. Due to the inductive bias of dense retrievers, the fragment embeddings tend to preserve the semantic similarity of the full document. We then average the embeddings of different combinations of fragments to form a final similarity score. If the number of poisoned fragments np is not too large, their influence is diminished through the averaging step. By evaluating multiple such combinations and aggregating the results, RAGPart effectively reduces the impact of the poisoned samples, as demonstrated in the Results section. In the context of dense retrieval as the first stage of RAG, and given the properties of document fragments, a document can be broken into N fragments. Based on how we form combinations of these fragments, we consider two approaches, as seen below: 1. RAGPart: We first embed each of the N fragments using the dense retriever’s embedding model. Then, we form combinations of k fragments (e.g., all (N k ) subsets of size k), and average their embeddings to form a combined representation. This approach leverages the inductive bias of dense retrievers, which produce similar embeddings for semantically related text, allowing the averaged embedding to 4 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Retrieve Document Document Document Document Document 1 Document 2 Document D-1 Document D --- Embedding 1 Embedding 1 Embedding 1 Embedding 1 -- - Query Embedding Query Embed Embed Retrieved Documents For each Document Stage 1: Retrieval Stage 2: Sanitation Mask Embed Query Embedding Masked Embedding Original Embedding Similarity V2 V1 If V2 + 𝛿 > V1 Remove Masked Tokens Stage 3: Reranking Document Document Document Document Query Embedding Sanitized Documents Re-rank based on similarity Top P Document Document Figure 3: RAGMask: Figure illustrates the concept of RAGMask, where the top αp retrieved documents are sanitized by observing the shift in similarity with the query under masking. preserve the original document’s meaning even when some fragments may be poisoned. This method is illustrated in Figure 1. 2. Naive combination of fragments baseline: In this approach, we first select combinations of k out of N document fragments (without first embedding them) and concatenate the raw text. The resulting text is then passed through the embedding model. A toy example containing a comparison between the two methods is shown later in Figure 2. Since embedding happens after mixing the content, poisoned fragments can—by