better than both the zero- shot and random few-shot prompts. Our experi- ments on five LVLMs confirmed that UniRAG with UniIR retrievers is a model-agnostic effective way to improve the generation quality of pre-trained LVLMs by retrieving relevant few-shot examples at inference time. To assess UniRAG’s effectiveness with uncom- mon domain-specific entities, we evaluated it on the Fashion200k dataset. Our results showed that UniRAG is essential to improve generation quality in scenarios where the generator model has limited implicit knowledge about the entities. 7 Limitations While we have open-sourced UniRAG, its usage is still bound by the licenses and the usage agree- ments of proprietary GPT-4o and Gemini-Pro mod- els used for inference. Furthermore, one of our open-source models LaVIT, is licensed under the LaVIT Community License which requires specific license requests for commercial use. The primary goal of UniRAG is to enhance the model’s knowledge of specific subject entities, en- suring that retrieved information directly influences the generated output—a common characteristic of all RAG applications. While retrieving from a di- verse database and incorporating multiple few-shot examples can broaden this influence, this approach may be less suitable for applications prioritizing creativity or originality over generation accuracy. Additionally, relevance is the only criterion used while retrieving candidate pairs for in-context ex- amples. Deploying this method in real-world appli- cations requires ranking candidates based on facts, potential harms, biases and other important fac- tors for responsible AI, rather than solely relying on relevance. The added latency and computation cost of retrieval and inference with larger prompts must also be considered for time- or cost-sensitive applications. This work uses the English-only MSCOCO and Fashion200k datasets for evaluation and experi- ments with retriever and generator models that are primarily trained on English corpus. Thus, the effectiveness of our proposed method for non- English low-resource languages remains unex- plored. Moreover, generating images of real people necessitates extra caution and extensive auditing due to significant privacy and security implications. Finally, further research is required to assess the generalizability of the retriever-guided generation to out-of-domain retrieval. For instance, employing an entity-centric evaluation dataset, which the re- triever has not been trained on, could better demon- strate the advantage of retrieval augmentation for multi-modal inference. Acknowledgments This research was supported in part by the Nat- ural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. We also thank Microsoft and Google for providing access to OpenAI LLMs via Azure and Gemini via VertexAI, respectively. Ad- ditionally, we appreciate Cong Wei for answering several questions about UniIR and Xueguang Ma for providing valuable feedback. References Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. 2022. Flamingo: a visual language model for few-shot learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:23716–23736. Peter Anderson, Basura Fernando, Mark Johnson, and Stephen Gould. 2016. Spice: Semantic proposi- tional image caption evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.08822. Zechen Bai, Pichao Wang, Tianjun Xiao, Tong He, Zongbo Han, Zheng Zhang, and Mike Zheng Shou.