0.461∗ 0.410 0.470 ROUGE-L ↑ 0.398 0.400 0.397 0.409∗ 0.361 0.417 LaMP-5 is the exception, which is explained by the results in Table 4. RSPG-Pre consistently outperforms the baselines significantly in all classification tasks (LaMP-1, LaMP-2, and LaMP-3) as well as in LaMP-6. In the remaining datasets, RSPG-Pre achieves comparable or superior results to the baselines, although the differences are not statistically significant. Finally, RSPG-Post leads to the best person- alized text generation performance on six out of seven datasets. What is the method that results in the highest personalized text generation performance? According to Table 3, RSPG-Post performs best on six out of seven datasets (all but LaMP-5). Con- triever, on the other hand, demonstrates the highest performance on LaMP-5. The performance gains by RSPG-Post on all the remaining six datasets are statistically significant, according to a two-tailed paired t-test for generation and ordinal classification datasets and McNemar test for binary and categorical text classification datasets. What is the impact of ROPG algorithms on retrieval selec- tion results? To investigate the impact of training personalized retrievers using the proposed ROPG algorithms (i.e., both ROPG- RL and ROPG-KD) on the end-to-end performance of the pipeline with retrieval selection, we conduct an analysis by excluding the fine-tuned retrievers from the retriever pool R. The outcomes of this experiment along with the Oracle performance (both lower and upper bound for retrieval selection) are reported in Table 5. The results indicate that the models without ROPG in its retriever pools achieve lower performance on all datasets in both pre- and post-generation settings. The only exception is the RSPG-Pre re- sults on LaMP-6, where including ROPG algorithms does not make any significant impact. This suggests that our ultimate performance gain is not just because of the retrieval selection models; Instead, the retrieval optimization approaches presented in Section 4 are effective in enhancing the end-to-end performance of the pipeline. Finally, a comparison between our results and the Oracle per- formance in Table 5 provides insight into the potential for fur- ther improvements in retrieval selection. For instance, in LaMP-3 and LaMP-4, our best performing method only achieves 68.3% and 75.4% of the Oracle’s upper-bound, respectively. This suggests that there are still substantial room for improvement. However, the corresponding numbers for LaMP-1, LaMP-2, LaMP-5, LaMP-6, and LaMP-7 are 84.2%, 91.8%, 88.1%, 84.7%, and 98.0%, respectively, suggesting that our best performing retrieval selection method is performing very close to the upper-bound performance. 7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK This paper explored personalization of LLMs through a retrieval augmentation pipeline with a focus on optimizing the retrieval com- ponent. We introduced two solutions for optimizing ranking models by soliciting personalized feedback from the language model, one based on reinforcement learning where the reward function is de- fined based on the personalized text generation quality, and another based on knowledge distillation from the language model to the retrieval model. Subsequently, we observed that personalization tasks can benefit from different retrieval models, depending on specific needs and requirements. Given this observation,