mechanism for indexing and search facts relevant to answering questions. els of difficulty: a) Task 1 presents the model with all relevant facts and requires only the construction of the entailment tree; b) Task 2 requires the model to perform the same task, but with 15 to 25 distrac- tors included; c) Task 3 involves first extracting the relevant facts from the entire corpus before con- structing the entailment tree. The authors find that even a relatively small model, T5-11B (Raffel et al., 2020), can perform relatively well on Tasks 1 and 2, when fine-tuned. Task 3, they find, is much harder highlighting the importance of efficient retrieval. We direct the reader to the results section of (Dalvi et al., 2021) for details. Overall, these results reinforce our earlier points: Retrieval is non-trivial and improving retrieval has the potential to significantly boost model perfor- mance. In the example presented above, using search terms derived just from the question (e.g. "eruption") including more complex combinations (e.g. “eruption and plants”) may not effectively retrieve relevant information. Additionally, if the search terms are too broad, it can cause the retrieval of a significant number of irrelevant facts. Both the lack of relevant facts and a large number of unre- lated facts can hinder the model’s performance. This work is motivated by the hypothesis that we can significantly narrow the search space if we index facts–stored as plain text–according to the frames they invoke and use the frames associated with the question along with the relations between frames to retrieve relevant facts. To test our hy- pothesis, we focus our experiments on the retrieval of relevant facts. In the above example, the FrameNet frames asso- ciated with the question could include: a) SURVIV- ING, which captures situations requiring endurance in a dangerous situation and includes annotations of the frame element “Dangerous_situation”; and b) CAUSE_HARM, which describes a situation where an ‘agent’ injures a ‘victim’. Our frame-based mechanism additionally allows the exploitation of the relations between frames to traverse the hier- archical interconnections between frames. This method approximates reasoning steps, enabling the retrieval of facts that are logically connected, even if they are not semantically similar. Within the limited scope of a single task, this work shows a significant improvement in retrieval (recall) using frames when compared to traditional search based baseline, and when compared to retrieval using search terms generated by LLMs, thus verifying the feasibility of this approach. Finally, we use the adaptability of state of the art LLMs to develop helper-LLMs that generate sets of frames, which we then evaluate and compare for their effective- ness in retrieving relevant information. Expanding these methods has the potential to provide, for the first time, data-driven insights that can be used to refine the theory of frame semantics. 4 Experimental Settings In this section, we describe the experiments we conduct to test the hypothesis that frame based indexing and search is a more effective mechanism than keyword based indexing. 4.1 Task Our choice of the