“Reference Chain”: If the pronouns, names, or titles of the same subject change, it can be considered as a potential synonym. For each interrelated entity pair, extract the following information: 22 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory - entities pair: The name of paired entities that must be consistent with the results obtained in Step 1. For example:“[entity1, entity2]”. - relationship description: Based on the analysis, describe the relationships between entities in detail. The description should adopt the original sentence order and wording to connect the two entities, provide a complete narrative without omitting any details; direct quotations of original phrases or appropriate supplements and analyses can be used, but the scattered information should be linked into a coherent, independent and readable paragraph. It is prohibited to summarize with a single sentence. - attribute: List any additional information that is not mentioned in the description but may be important, such as the time, place and context of the relationship. If the two entity names refer to the same object, then add the output content “Same Entity” in this item. If nothing is available, then skip this item. Extracting high-level Keywords Prompt: Based on all the identified entity relationships in Step 2, extract the high-level keywords that can summarize the main idea, core concepts, key events or abstract themes of the paragraph or the entire text. # Special attention: • Keywords must be specific and have clear meanings, avoiding the use of vague terms such as “emotion”, “development”, or “process”; • By combining multiple relationship chains, theme-level concepts (such as “family power struggle”, “technology ethics dilemma”, “urban-rural identity recognition”, etc.) can be extracted. - high level keywords: The content of high-level keywords should summarize the overall idea presented in the document. Avoid using specific names of certain entities that focus excessively on details, as well as vague or empty terms. Extracting High-order Relations Prompt: Based on the entities in Step 1, the entities pairs in Step 2 and the high-level keywords in Step 3, try to analyze their multi-dimensional connections or commonalities, and construct a high-order association set that includes as many entities as possible. # Association Types (satisfy one is sufficient): • Event-driven Association: Multiple entities form a high-order association sequence connected together to form a semantic chain, including co-occurring events, event chains, multi-role events, and event nesting, etc.; • Knowledge-logical Association: Multiple entities jointly constitute a certain knowledge system, theoretical framework, or logical structure, including concept composition, explanation of principles, classification system, and axiom system, etc.; • Functional-cooperative Association: Multiple entities undertake different functions in a certain system, process, or organizational structure, collaborating to complete tasks, including process collaboration, system modules, organizational division of labor, and supply chain collaboration, etc.; • Semantic Analogy & Metaphor Association: Multiple entities form cross-domain mapping through analogy, metaphor, and symbolism, including structural analogy, metaphor mapping, and symbolic system, etc.; • Stance & Conflict Association: Multiple entities exhibit positions, interests, conflicts, or negotiation relationships on a certain issue, including position