the tree con- text: images containing flowers and green grass induce some expected visual bias in the retrieval process, thus the image having the highest probabil- ity of containing a tree may be selected, ignoring the ambiguous andromeda attribute. Of course, there is also the possible scenario that a retrieval model has never been trained on the ambiguous word at all: the rarity of the concepts present in the target word vocabulary increases the probability of exclusively relying on the well-known context word, resulting in significant randomness during arXiv:2310.14025v1 [cs.CL] 21 Oct 2023 selection. To this end, VWSD trustworthiness also arises as a critical point, raising the need for ex- plainable solutions. In this work, we showcase a vast variety of imple- mentations for VWSD. Multiple experiments are conducted for each of the implemented approaches, achieving one of the first extensive contributions to this interesting task: • We exploit Large Language Models (LLMs) as knowledge bases to enrich given full phrases, so that the target word is disam- biguated by incorporating more context, ad- dressing even cases that the ambiguous word is unknown to the retrieval module. • We convert VWSD to a unimodal problem: retrieval (text-to-text and image-to-image) and question-answering (QA) to fully explore the capabilities related models have to offer. • Features extracted from the aforementioned techniques are used to train a learning to rank model, achieving competitive retrieval results. • Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting is lever- aged to guide answer generation, while reveal- ing intermediate reasoning steps that act as explanations for retrieval. Our code can be found at https://github.com/anastasiakrith/multimodal- retrieval-for-vwsd/. 1 Related work Text-image retrieval has been revolutionized since adopting the popular Transformer framework (Vaswani et al., 2017) to further incorporate the vi- sual modality. This transition towards multimodal- ity was addressed by incorporating one additional transformer stream to process images (Tan and Bansal, 2019; Lu et al., 2019), extending the BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) architecture. Most recent ap- proaches (Kim et al., 2021; Huang et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2021) improved upon those primordial works by utilizing a single encoder for both images and language, therefore minimizing the number of trainable parameters, and consequently improving the performance of several VL tasks, including mul- timodal retrieval. A significant milestone was the adoption of contrastive learning for text-image rep- resentations, a technique that is followed by CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) and ALIGN (Jia et al., 2021). Visual Word Sense Disambiguation (VWSD) (Raganato et al., 2023) is only recently introduced as part of the SemEval 2023 challenge. So far, the concurrent work of Dadas (2023) can act as a mea- sure of comparison to ours. We adopt and extend some ideas presented in their paper, while further expanding the experimental suite to cover variable approaches to the task. Moreover, we step upon the usage of LLMs for VWSD as in Kritharoula et al. (2023) to address both performance improvement and explainability aspects. LLMs as knowledge bases is a core idea fol- lowed throughout our paper, as