LLM. In this section, we introduce the necessary preliminaries and provide a detailed explanation of our method. 3.1 PRELIMINARIES 3.1.1 PRE-FILLING STAGE In the pre-filling stage, the model processes the input question tokens and visual tokens to construct the initial representations and prepare the key-value (KV) caches for attention computations. Let Xq ∈RNq×C denote the question tokens, where Nq is the length of the question and C is the channel dimension. After the token merging, we obtain a compressed set of visual tokens ˜ Xv ∈RN′ v×C, where N ′ v is the reduced number of visual tokens. The combined input sequence X ∈R(Nq+N ′ v)×C is formed by concatenating the question tokens and the merged visual tokens. The model employs a Transformer architecture with L layers. In each layer l, the self-attention mechanism computes queries Q(l), keys K(l), and values V (l) through linear projections of the input. Based on this, the attention scores are computed using scaled dot-product attention with causal masking to prevent attending to future positions: A(l) = Softmax Q(l)(K(l))⊤ √ C + m  , (1) where m ∈R(Nq+N′ v)×(Nq+N′ v) is a causal mask with entries mij = −∞if position i < j (future positions) and 0 otherwise. The KV caches KV (l) = (K(l), V (l)) are stored for each layer l to facilitate efficient computation during decoding. 3.1.2 DECODING STAGE In the decoding stage, the model generates the answer tokens autoregressively, utilizing the stored KV caches from the pre-filling stage. At each decoding step, given the previously generated to- kens, the model computes the necessary representations to predict the next token. By using the KV caches, the model efficiently attends to the input sequence without recomputing the attention for the entire sequence. This process reduces computational overhead and speeds up the generation of the response. 4 Video LLM … Question Tokens Transformer Block 𝑴× Store … Cross Attention Transformer Block (𝑳−𝑴) × Store Predict Retained Token Pruned Token KV Cache 𝑲(𝑴−𝟏) 𝑽(𝑴−𝟏) 𝑲(… ) 𝑽(… ) 𝑲(𝟎) 𝑽(𝟎) First 𝑴Layers 𝑲(𝑳−𝟏) 𝑽(𝑳−𝟏) 𝑲(… ) 𝑽(… ) 𝑲(𝑴) 𝑽(𝑴) Last 𝑳−𝑴Layers Select … … … … Vision Encoder Temporal Clustering & Feature Similarity Calculation Static Token Merge … Segment 1 Segment 2 … Spatial Merge Static Token Dynamic Token Figure 2: Illustration of the PruneVid framework. We begin by segmenting the video into different scenes and then decouple the video tokens into static and dynamic ones. Next, we compress the static tokens along the temporal dimension and merge similar tokens in the spatial dimension to further reduce redundancy. Afterward, by using the question-to-video attention weights learned from an intermediate layer, we determine which tokens should be pruned to improve efficiency. 3.2 SPATIAL-TEMPORAL TOKEN MERGING As depicted in Fig. 2, given an input video consisting of T frames, we first extract visual tokens from each frame using a visual encoder. Let X(t) v ∈RNv×C denote the visual tokens for frame t, where Nv is the number of tokens per frame. The complete set of