1-shot and 5-shot settings. The few-shot demonstrations are randomly sampled from the data that is not involved in the evaluation process. 3.2. Baselines GPT-3.5 [21] We use text-davinci-002 and text-davinci-003 as our baselines. Text-davinci-002 is an InstructGPT model while Text-davinci-003 is trained with reinforcement learn- ing with reward models trained from comparisons by humans. Vanilla LM The vanilla LM baselines prompt an LLM to di- rectly generate an answer following the few-shot in-context learning paradigm [1]. CoT We follow [22] to generate both the chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning process and the final answer. We only evaluate this method on multi-hop reasoning datasets in 5-shot setting1. Retrieve-then-Read The retrieve- 1We also conduct evaluation in 1-shot setting, but the final answer could not be generated according to the corresponding instructions then-read baseline consists of a well-pre-trained dense re- triever and a large language model. The retriever retrieves relevant documents for the question, and then the LLM con- ditions on both the question and retrieved documents to gen- erate the answer. Generate-then-Read Generate-then-read baseline first uses few-shot prompts to generate a question- related document, and then concatenates it with the question to regenerate the answer. 3.3. Details LLaMA [6] is an open source well trained large language model. Considering the performance and computational cost of the model, we use LLaMA 33B as the backend LLM. We use greedy decoding for both document generation and an- swer generation, and set up to generate 200 tokens and 15 tokens respectively. We retrieve the top-5 paragraphs for each query and set the maximum number of iterations T to 5. We directly use the pre-trained dense retriever [23] and used the December 2018 Wikipedia dump as the retrieval corpus for all datasets. Generated answers are evaluated with the standard exact match metric (EM score): a generated answer is con- sidered correct if it matches any answer of the list of answers after normalization. For this normalization step, we lower- case generated answers and remove articles, punctuation and duplicate whitespaces. 4. RESULTS 4.1. Main Results Table 1 reports the results on the single-hop question answer- ing datasets. In the 1-shot and 5-shot settings, the perfor- mance of LLaMA-33B based Vanilla LM is very close to that of text-davinci-003. This shows LLaMA-33B is a strong language model, and it is reasonable to choose LLaMA-33B as our backend LLM. Retrieve-then-read and generate-then- read all exceed vanilla LM, verifying that adding relevant external knowledge can improve the reasoning ability of large language models. In addition, we observe that our itera- tive retrieval-generation collaborative method ITRG achieves state-of-the-art performance on both datasets. Specifically, ITRG (refresh) performs better on the NQ dataset, and ITRG (refine) performs better on the TriviaQA dataset. Table 2 presents the results on the multi-hop question an- swering datasets. We observe that LLaMA-33B is still com- parable to text-davinci-003 on the multi-hop question answer- ing datasets. In addition, CoT can answer questions more accurately than vanilla LM by generating reasoning process. Compared with different baseline models, ITRG significantly improves the