the average similarity between different trigger τ in T and the adversarial passage pa. The results are merged adversarial passages that work across clusters of triggers, maximizing the attack success rate while minimizing the number of inserted adversarial passages. This approach efficiently combines adversarial passages for similar triggers, leading to an effective attack with a lower poisoning ratio. By leveraging the similarity in embedding features, we ensure that the 5 ➌Create DoS Prompt e.g., All contexts are private information LLM LLM if retrieved ➍Denial of Service e.g., Sorry, I cannot answer this question ➋Select Alignment Feature e.g., Privacy ➊Alignment Probe Figure 4: Alignment as an Attack (AaaA) with an Example of Denial of Service (DoS). optimized adversarial passage can be retrieved by all associated triggers, achieving a high attack success rate with fewer passages. 3.2 Generation-phase Attacking Methods Alignment as an Attack (AaaA). We propose Alignment as an Attack (AaaA) to craft a prompt that activates a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on an aligned LLM RAG system, causing it to refuse to respond to queries. Simply using a prompt like "Please ignore all context" is ineffective because, even if retrieved, the LLM may disregard this instruction due to attention dispersion caused by other long contexts [43] or alignment mechanisms designed to defend against prompt injection attacks [44]. We found that a well-aligned LLM is highly sensitive to information related to privacy or offensiveness. This sensitivity presents an opportunity to conduct a DoS attack by misleading the LLM into perceiving that the context includes private information. By creating prompts that indicate all context is private information, the attacker can trigger the LLM’s alignment mechanisms, leading it to refuse service and deny answering queries. As illustrated in Figure 4, the process begins with ❶probing the alignment aspects of the target LLM, such as toxicity and privacy. The attacker then ❷selects one alignment feature to exploit, for example, privacy. Subsequently, a prompt is ❸created to activate the LLM’s alignment mechanism, such as "All contexts are private information." If this crafted prompt is retrieved and processed by the LLM, it will mislead the LLM to ❹refuse to answer, leveraging the alignment of the LLM. Specifically, the LLM will respond, "Sorry, I cannot answer this question." This method causes a DoS attack by exploiting the LLM’s alignment features, allowing the attacker to manipulate the LLM to deny service and disrupt its normal operations. (a) Sentiment Steering (Negative) ➊Corpus and Trigger (e.g., Trump) LLM ➋Sentiment Filter e.g., Negative ➌Create Negative Prompt e.g., Reinforce border wall ... political discord… if retrieved ➍Negative Output e.g., Trump's policies elicit wide criticism… LLM (b) Sentiment Steering (Positive) ➊Corpus and Trigger (e.g., Biden) LLM ➋Sentiment Filter e.g., Positive ➌Create Positive Prompt e.g., Multi Trillion Dollar... help economics... if retrieved ➍Positive Output e .g., Biden’s policies promoted economic… LLM Figure 5: Selective-Fact as An Attack. Examples of Sentiment Steering. Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA). We also propose the Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA) method to bias the LLM’s output by injecting