Swiatek defeated Ons Jabeur in the second round of the Qatar Open 2022 to win the tournament. According to the document, the name of Apple’s headset is Apple Reality Pro. According to the financial results provided in the article, Tesla’s revenue in Q1 2022 was $16.86 billion. Table 2: Error cases of noise robustness, and only one positive document and one negative document are shown. The responses are generated by ChatGLM2-6B. The blue text indicates the matching parts between the document and the question or answer, while the red text highlights the non-matching parts. structions to inform the model.). If the model generates this content, it indicates that the model has detected erroneous information in the document. Error correction rate measures whether the model can provide the correct answer after identifying errors for coun- terfactual robustness. The model is asked to generate the cor- rect answer after identifying the factual errors. If the model generates the correct answer, it indicates that the model is capable of correcting errors in the document. Considering that the model may not fully adhere to in- structions, for rejection rate and error detection rate, we also use ChatGPT to conduct additional evaluation of the answers. Specifically, we assess the model’s responses by using instructions and demonstrations to determine if they can reflect information that is not present in the document or identify any factual errors. Experiments In this section, we evaluate the performance of various LLMs, analyze and discuss the results, summarizing the main challenges that existing LLMs encounter when using external knowledge. Settings Task formats. Due to contextual limitations, we provide 5 external documents for each question. In our experiments on noise robustness, we evaluate scenarios with noise ra- tios ranging from 0 to 0.8. To comprehensively evaluate the overall capabilities, we have adopted a unified instruction for each language, as shown in Figure 3. The experiments were conducted using an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090. Models We conduct evaluation on 6 state-of-the-art large language models which can generate both En- glish and Chinese including ChatGPT (OpenAI 2022)3, ChatGLM-6B (THUDM 2023a), ChatGLM2-6B (THUDM 2023b), Vicuna-7b-v1.3 (Chiang et al. 2023), Qwen-7B- Chat (QwenLM 2023), BELLE-7B-2M (Yunjie Ji 2023). Results on Noise Robustness We evaluated the accuracy based on the different noise ratios in external documents, and the results are shown in Table 1. We can see that: (1) RAG can effect improve the responses of LLMs. LLMs have shown strong performance even in the presence of noise, indicating that RAG is a promising way for LLMs to generate accurate and reliable responses. (2) The increasing noise rate poses a challenge for RAG in LLMs. Specifically, when the noise ratio exceeds 80%, the accuracy decreases significantly at a significance level of 0.05. For example, the performance of ChatGPT has decreased from 96.33% to 76.00%, while the performance of ChatGLM2-6B has decreased from 91.33% to 57.33%. Error Analysis. To better comprehend the negative im- pact of noise on model generation, we examined the incor- rect answers and found