2.00 2.57 # ROUGE-L overlap be- tween query and targets. 0.06 0.31 0.34 0.11 0.27 Table 2: Comparison with conventional IR benchmarks. to automate this process. Specifically, we first in- vite three human experts with strong NLP and IR backgrounds to manually craft 100 seed in- structions. In line with the well-defined format from Asai et al., our instruction outlines the rel- evance criteria by bridging the query intent and the functionality of the target tools. For example, for the transcribing the audio to text task, the in- struction is presented as “retrieve tools that process audio inputs to produce accurate textual transcrip- tions aligned with the user requirements”. Next, we employ a powerful LLM, i.e., GPT-4o, as an automatic instruction generator and guide it to gen- erate instruction for each task through in-context learning. To enhance the diversity, we randomly sample in-context examples from the pool of both the generated and handcrafted instructions. A de- tailed pseudo algorithm is provided in Appendix B. After the above three processes, we obtain TOOLRET, which consists of 7.6k tasks, each paired with an instruction, and a corpus of 43k diverse tools, providing a comprehensive testbed and supporting various evaluation settings. 4 Benchmark statistic Table 1 provides the basic statics of TOOLRET. We observe that there are three mainstream formats of tool documentation: (i) Code, which is a function- level snippet in programming language; (ii) Web API, which elaborates the tool usage in structured JSON format following the Web OpenAPI specifi- cation; (iii) Customized application, which directly describes the tool functionality in free-form nature language. Based on these formats, we categorize 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 Rouge-L score between input query and target tool documentation 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 density Frequency distribution for Rouge-L score Normal distribution Kernel density estimation Figure 2: ROUGE-L overlap between the query (input) and the target tools (label). Figure 3: Length distribution of our benchmark. TOOLRET into three subsets accordingly and di- vide the TOOLRET into Code Function, Web API, and Customized App subsets. Below, we report a more detailed analysis of TOOLRET. 4.1 Complexity In tool learning, previous studies have highlighted the necessity of combining multiple tools for task solving (Shi et al., 2024). Thus, we ana- lyze the complexity of our retrieval benchmark from two aspects. First, we calculate the av- erage number of target tools for each retrieval task and compare it with well-known IR bench- marks such as HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) and MTEB (Muenni ghoff et al., 2022). As shown in Table 2, TOOLRET requires models to recall more targets, posing a challenge in comprehensive re- trieval. Second, we compute the lexical overlap, i.e., ROUGE-L, between the input query and cor- responding retrieval targets (tool documentation in TOOLRET and passage in IR benchmarks). We find that this overlap is substantially lower in TOOLRET. It indicates that, for neural IR models, TOOLRET requires more heavily on the semantic representa- tion rather than simple lexical matching. Therefore, the retrieval