U.S. Open 2022 men’s and women’s singles?”, the two champions may be mentioned in different documents. In or- der to provide better answers to complex questions, it is nec- essary for LLMs to have the ability to integrate information. Counterfactual Robustness refers to a capacity to han- dle errors in external knowledge. In the real world, there is an abundance of false information on the internet. Please note that we only evaluate the situation that LLMs are given warnings about potential risks in the retrieved information through instruction. In real-world scenarios, it is not possible to obtain per- fect documents with all the necessary external knowledge. Therefore, evaluating these four abilities of the model be- comes essential in order to measure the RAG of LLMs. Data construction Inspired by previous benchmarks for LLMs, RGB utilizes a question-answering format for evaluation. We evaluate the LLMs by judging the retrieval-augmented responses of them to the questions. To simulate real-world scenarios, we con- struct question and answer data using actual news articles. Due to the abundance of knowledge contained within the LLMs there is a potential for bias when measuring the first three abilities. To mitigate this, the instances of RGB are constructed by latest news articles. Additionally, we retrieve external documents from Internet through search engines. Finally, we expand the corpus and divided it into 4 testbeds to evaluate the above basic abilities of LLMs. The overall procedure of our data construction is illustrated in Figure 2. QA instances generation. We first collect latest news ar- ticles and use prompts to make ChatGPT generate events, questions, and answers for each articles. For example, as shown in the Figure 2, for a report about “The 2022 Nobel Prize”, ChatGPT will generate corresponding event, ques- tion and provide key information for answering it. By gen- erating events, the model is able to preliminarily filter out news articles that do not contain any events. After genera- tion, we manually check the answer and filter out data that is difficult to retrieve through search engines. Retrieve using search engine. For each query, we use Google’s API to fetch 10 relevant web pages and extract corresponding snippets of text from them. Simultaneously, we read these web pages and convert their textual content into text chunks with a maximum length of 300 tokens. Us- ing an existing dense retrieval model 2, we select the top-30 text chunks that match the query most effectively. These re- trieved text chunks, along with the snippets provided by the search API, will serve as our external documents. These doc- uments will be divided into positive documents and negative documents based on whether they contain the answer. Testbeds construction for each ability. We expand the corpus and divided it into 4 testbeds to evaluate the above basic abilities of LLMs. To evaluate the noise robustness, we sample varying numbers of negative documents ac- cording to the desired ratio of noises. For negative rejec- tion, all the external documents are sampled from negative documents.