box. With this addition, the ﬁnal output of the ob- ject detector becomes a (5+256) vector with the ﬁrst value being the object’s class, the next four the box coordinates normalized by the image’s shape in the range (0, 1) and ﬁ- nally the visual features vector. We discard any detected box that might be associated with the tracked vehicle and, instead, we use the ground-truth tracking box provided by the dataset. However, since the class index is not provided we deﬁne a special index for the tracked vehicle. The visual features vector corresponding to the tracking box is initial- ized to zeros, to be then correctly ﬁlled by the convolutional backbone. 4.1.2 Convolutional Backbone The convolutional backbone is a plain ResNet-family con- volutional network. Given the sequence of the M sampled frames of a generic tracking sequence, the region delimited by the tracking bounding box is cropped from each frame, and the crops are resized to a common ﬁxed size. The result- ing tensor, of shape (M, 3, W, H), is fed into the convolu- tional backbone. Each of the M frames along the temporal axis is processed individually, treating the temporal dimen- sional as a batch dimension. The resulting tensor, of shape (M, 256), is used to correctly ﬁll the target’s vector feature previously initialized with zeros. For the network, we chose the simplest approach of start- ing from a ResNet model pre-trained on Imagenet [4], in which we replaced the last fully connected layers used for 1000-classes classiﬁcation with a newly initialized one, to provide an output of 256 elements. Differently from the Faster R-CNN used to produce the object embeddings, the ResNet model is trained along with the remainder of the model. Considering the extreme range of variation in appearance due to orientation, lightning condition, occlusion, and sev- eral other factors, this component has been noted through qualitative observations to be the most inﬂuential to the overall effectiveness of the AYCE model. 4.1.3 Stacked Spatio-Temporal Transformer For the next part of our model, we use two identical Trans- former Encoders in cascade. The ﬁrst one aggregates the (O + 1) object embeddings for each of the M frames into a single visual embedding, to provide a comprehensive frame-level representation. The second one aggregates the information along the temporal axis to infer the sequential meaning of the depicted scene. From a practical standpoint, we use the standard Trans- former Encoder module [28]. Therefore the number of En- coder blocks is set to NB = 6 and the number of Atten- tion heads to NH = 8 in all the Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA) modules. The architecture of the Transformer modules is kept unchanged, with the self-attention sub- module and the feed-forward submodule, each followed by dropout with p = 0.1, a ReLU activation function, and Add & Layer Norm. The bottleneck dimension in the linear sub- module is also kept to the original value 2048. The ﬁrst Encoder module, namely the Spatial Encoder, takes as input the complete