2023; Mündler et al., 2023; Azaria and Mitchell, 2023; Zheng et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023a). Such a shortcoming could negatively impact our results, since we have not investigated whether there are hallucinated or untruthful enhancements, especially since some phrases may require specific domain knowledge to be evaluated (for example, andromeda tree is not an everyday term, and even a human needs to consult an encyclopedia to evaluate if a related enhance- ment is correct). To the best of our knowledge, there has been no open-source tool to accurately and faithfully detect hallucinations, therefore as for now, we cannot resolve this limitation. However, we could possibly mitigate hallucinations and un- truthful generation by combining LLM knowledge with knowledge graphs, which can be regarded as more reliable knowledge sources for enhancing VL tasks (Lymperaiou and Stamou, 2023). We will investigate such hybrid techniques in future work. Finally, we have focused our experimentation on the English language in order to develop a va- riety of techniques for VWSD rather than testing an applicable subset of them on other languages. Nevertheless, we plan to address this limitation as future work. Ethics Statement Our work involves a newly introduced publicly available dataset released under the CC-BY-NC 4.0 license and can be accessed by any researcher. Throughout this work, we adhered to the fair data usage policy, as required by the dataset creators4. We employ language models up to 6.7B parameters which were run on a machine with a 16 GB GPU. Such computational resources are rather easily ac- cessible by most research institutions; therefore, throughout this paper we promote fair and repro- ducible research, eliminating the need for high-end computational budget. Accessing larger models such as GPT-3 and GPT-3.5-turbo was feasible via their APIs, which do not impose computational lim- itations from the user’s side. The task itself does not involve any obvious risks, as it targets to expand the field of multimodal retrieval. Harnessing lan- guage models as knowledge bases imposes the risk 4https://raganato.github.io/vwsd/ of retrieving false or inaccurate information, which however does not induce serious implications in its current usage, given the non-critical nature of this dataset. Overall, we do not anticipate any ethical issues arising from our work. References Badr AlKhamissi, Millicent Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, Mona Diab, and Marjan Ghazvininejad. 2022. A review on language models as knowledge bases. Amos Azaria and Tom Mitchell. 2023. The internal state of an llm knows when its lying. Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wen- liang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023. A multitask, multilin- gual, multimodal evaluation of chatgpt on reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity. Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess,