al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023; Trivedi et al., 2023). In some typical question-answering tasks, retrieval-augmented language models utilize a one- time retrieval method (Izacard et al., 2023; Lewis et al., 2020). However, these methods are not satisfied for multi-hop questions, necessitating a more nuanced approach to acquiring comprehen- sive knowledge. Such questions often involve in- direct facts that may exhibit minimal lexical or semantic correlation with the question but are es- 1 arXiv:2404.14464v1 [cs.CL] 22 Apr 2024 sential for reaching accurate answers. For instance, to answer the question,‘According to the 2001 census, what was the population of the city in which Kirton End is located?’. First, we need to know that ’Kirton End is located in Boston’, then look up ’the population of Boston according to the 2001 census’. This process highlights the necessity of iterative re- trieval, underscoring the limitations of one-time retrieval strategies in addressing complex informa- tional needs. Iterative retrieval involves conducting multiple turns of retrieval, each guided by newly generated sub-questions (Press et al., 2023), the most recent response (Shao et al., 2023), or an intermediate reasoning step (Trivedi et al., 2023). As illustrated in Figure 1, these methods employ a sequential, chain-like process alternating between retrieval and query generation. While these approaches demon- strate superior performance compared to one-time retrieval, the chain-like nature of the process is sus- ceptible to cascading errors. A local error at any step, whether due to inappropriate retrieval or query generation, can affect subsequent steps, culminat- ing in incorrect responses. Such errors underscore the inherent vulnerability of iterative retrieval meth- ods, highlighting a critical challenge in achieving reliable knowledge extraction. To this end, drawing inspiration from previous work that leveraged a tree-like reasoning process to enhance reasoning capability (Yao et al., 2023a), this paper introduces TREE OF REVIEWS(TOR) a dynamic, tree-based iterative retrieval framework. We follow the retrieve-and-read paradigm (Zhu et al., 2021), the retriever initially retrieves knowledge for the question, and the reader utilizes this retrieved knowledge to generate a response. In detail, we construct a tree with the initial ques- tion serving as the root and individual paragraphs as other nodes during the retrieval phase. Each node contains a single paragraph, mitigating the risk of diverging the reasoning process due to ir- relevant information. A paragraph review block within this structure evaluates each node to de- termine the subsequent action—further retrieval, acceptance, or rejection. Each accepted path is re- ferred to as a piece of evidence. We propose three evidence fusion methods, allowing the reader to utilize evidence from various paths to generate the final response. Incorporating a tree structure into the retrieval process has enhanced the performance of paragraph retrieval and answer accuracy. To further enhance the search efficiency of ToR, we advocate for two tree-based search optimiza- tion strategies: pruning, which aims to diminish the frequency of unproductive search initiations, and effective expansion, designed to refine query generation for improved retrieval paragraphs. Experiments on three different multi-hop ques- tion answering datasets show that our proposed