Benchmarking Large Language Models in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Jiawei Chen1,3, Hongyu Lin1,*, Xianpei Han1,2,*, Le Sun1,2 1Chinese Information Processing Laboratory 2State Key Laboratory of Computer Science Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China 3University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China {jiawei2020,hongyu,xianpei,sunle}@iscas.ac.cn Abstract Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a promising ap- proach for mitigating the hallucination of large language models (LLMs). However, existing research lacks rigorous evaluation of the impact of retrieval-augmented generation on different large language models, which make it challeng- ing to identify the potential bottlenecks in the capabilities of RAG for different LLMs. In this paper, we systemati- cally investigate the impact of Retrieval-Augmented Gener- ation on large language models. We analyze the performance of different large language models in 4 fundamental abili- ties required for RAG, including noise robustness, negative rejection, information integration, and counterfactual robust- ness. To this end, we establish Retrieval-Augmented Genera- tion Benchmark (RGB), a new corpus for RAG evaluation in both English and Chinese. RGB divides the instances within the benchmark into 4 separate testbeds based on the afore- mentioned fundamental abilities required to resolve the case. Then we evaluate 6 representative LLMs on RGB to diag- nose the challenges of current LLMs when applying RAG. Evaluation reveals that while LLMs exhibit a certain degree of noise robustness, they still struggle significantly in terms of negative rejection, information integration, and dealing with false information. The aforementioned assessment outcomes indicate that there is still a considerable journey ahead to ef- fectively apply RAG to LLMs. Introduction Recently, there have been impressive advancements in large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT (OpenAI 2022) and ChatGLM (THUDM 2023a). Although these models have shown remarkable general abilities (Bang et al. 2023; Guo et al. 2023), they still suffer severely from challenges includ- ing factual hallucination (Cao et al. 2020; Raunak, Menezes, and Junczys-Dowmunt 2021; Ji et al. 2023), knowledge out- dating (He, Zhang, and Roth 2022), and the lack of domain- specific expertise (Li et al. 2023c; Shen et al. 2023). Incorporating external knowledge via information re- trieval, i.e., Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), has been regarded as a promising way to resolve the above chal- lenges. (Guu et al. 2020; Lewis et al. 2020; Borgeaud et al. * Corresponding authors. Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. Noise Robustness Negative Rejection Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel prize in literature? The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2022 is awarded to the French author Annie Ernaux, “for the courage and clinical acuity … The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2021 is awarded to the novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah, born in Zanzibar and active in … Annie Ernaux Question External documents contain noises Retrieval Augmented Generation Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel prize in literature? The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2021 is awarded to the novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah, born in Zanzibar and active in … The 2020 Nobel Laureate in Literature, poet Louise Glück, has written both poetry and essays about poetry. Since