only access limited image context and require reference annotations, Woodpecker [77] uses GPT-4V to di- rectly assess model responses grounded in the image. Faith- Score [162] is a more fine-grained metric based on a routine that breaks down descriptive sub-sentences and evaluates each sub-sentence separately. Based on previous studies, AMBER [163] is an LLM-free benchmark that encompasses both discriminative tasks and generative tasks and involves three types of possible hallucinations (see §6.1). IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE 11 6.3 Mitigation Methods According to high-level ideas, the current methods can be roughly divided into three categories: pre-correction, in- process-correction, and post-correction. Pre-correction. An intuitive and straightforward solution for hallucination is to collect specialized data (e.g. negative data) and use the data for fine-tuning, thus resulting in models with fewer hallucinated responses. LRV-Instruction [164] introduces a visual instruction tun- ing dataset. Apart from common positive instructions, the dataset incorporates delicately designed negative instruc- tions at different semantic levels to encourage responses faithful to the image content. LLaVA-RLHF [112] collects human-preference pairs and finetunes models with rein- forcement learning techniques, leading to models more aligned with less hallucinated answers. In-process-correction. Another line is to make improve- ments in architectural design or feature representation. These works try to explore the reasons for hallucinations and design corresponding remedies to mitigate them in the generation process. HallE-Switch [159] performs an empirical analysis of possible factors of object existence hallucinations and hy- pothesizes that existence hallucinations derive from objects not grounded by visual encoders, and they are actually inferred based on knowledge embedded in the LLM. Based on the assumption, a continuous controlling factor and corresponding training scheme are introduced to control the extent of imagination in model output during inference. VCD [165] suggests that object hallucinations derive from two primary causes, i.e. statistical bias in training corpus and strong language prior embedded in LLMs. The authors take notice of the phenomenon that when injecting noise into the image, MLLMs tend to lean towards language prior rather than the image content for response genera- tion, leading to hallucinations. Correspondingly, this work designs an amplify-then-contrast decoding scheme to offset the false bias. HACL [166] investigates the embedding space of vision and language. Based on the observation, a contrastive learn- ing scheme is devised to pull paired cross-modal repre- sentation closer while pushing away non-hallucinated and hallucinated text representation. Post-correction. Different from previous paradigms, post- correction mitigates hallucinations in a post-remedy way and corrects hallucinations after output generation. Wood- pecker [77] is a training-free general framework for hal- lucination correction. Specifically, the method incorporates expert models to supplement contextual information of the image and crafts a pipeline to correct hallucinations step by step. The method is interpretable in that intermediate results of each step can be checked, and objects are grounded in the image. The other method LURE [167] trains a specialized revisor to mask objects with high uncertainty in the descrip- tions and regenerates the responses again. 7 EXTENDED TECHNIQUES 7.1 Multimodal In-Context Learning ICL