the country code in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 format without explanation. Write 'MSA' if the sentence is written in Modern Standard Arabic. sentence: {inputSentence} code: D.2 Sentiment, Stylistic and Emotion Analysis Sentiment analysis Choose only one sentiment between: Positive, Negative, Neutral, or Mixed for this sentence: sentence: {inputSentence} label: Emotion detection Predict all the possible emotions in the following Arabic sentences without explanation and put them in a Python list. List of emotions are: anger, anticipation, disgust, fear, joy, love, optimism, pessimism, sadness, surprise, and trust sentence: {inputSentence} labels: D.3 Demographic/Protected Attributes Gender If the following person name can be considered as male, write 'm' without explnanation, and if it can be considered as female, write 'f' without explnanation. person name: {inputSentence} label: Location Map the following locations to one of the Arab countries. Write the country code in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 format without explanation. If the country is outside Arab countries, write 'OTHERS', and if the location cannot be mapped to any country in the world, write 'UNK' without any explanation. location: {inputSentence} label: Name Info Predict the country of citizenship of the following person name. Write the country code in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 format without explanation. name: {inputSentence} code: D.4 Ethics and NLP: Factuality, Disinformation, Harmful content Offensive Language If the following sentence is offensive, just write "OFF", otherwise, just write "NOT_OFF" without explanation: sentence: {inputSentence} label: Hate Speech If the following sentence has hate speech, just write "HS", otherwise, just write "NOT_HS" without explanation: sentence: {inputSentence} label: Adult Content Classify the following Arabic sentence as adult language (the language used in adult advertisement and porno advertisement) or not adult language without illustruation. In case of adult language, just write "ADULT" without explaination, and in case of not adult language, just write "NOT_ADULT" without explanation. text: {inputSentence} label: Spam If the following sentence can be classified as spam or contains an advertisemnt, write 'ADS' without explnanation, otherwise write 'NOTADS' without explanantion. sentence: {inputSentence} label: Subjectivity Classify the sentence as subjective or objective. Provide only label. sentence: {inputSentence} label: Checkworthiness Classify the sentence as checkworthy or not checkworthy. Provide only the label. sentence: {inputSentence} label: Claim detection Does this sentence contain a factual claim? Answer only by yes or no. sentence: {inputSentence} label: Harmful content detection Classify the following sentence as harmful or not harmful. Answer only by yes or no. Provide only label. sentence: {inputSentence} label: Attention-worthy Classify the sentence by whether it should get the attention of policymakers. Answer by yes or no. If the predicted label is yes then classify the sentence into one of the following categories: asks question, blame authorities, calls for action, Harmful, contains advice, discusses action taken, discusses cure, or other. text: {input_sample} label: D.5 Semantics Semantic Textual Similarity Given two sentences, produce a continuous valued similarity score on a scale from 0 to 5, with 0 indicating that the semantics of the sentences are completely independent and 5 indicating semantic equivalence. The output should be exactly in the form of a similarity