a significance level of 0.05. For example, the performance of ChatGPT has decreased from 96.33% to 76.00%, while the performance of ChatGLM2-6B has decreased from 91.33% to 57.33%. Error Analysis. To better comprehend the negative im- pact of noise on model generation, we examined the incor- rect answers and found that these errors typically originate from three reasons, as shown in Table 2. (1) Long-distance information. LLMs often face diffi- culty in identifying the correct answer from external docu- ments when the information related to the question is distant from the information related to the answer. This scenario is quite common as longer texts are frequently encountered 3We use gpt-3.5-turbo api in the experiments. on the internet. In such cases, it is typical for the question’s information to be initially presented at the start of the doc- ument and subsequently referred to using pronouns. In Ta- ble 2, the question information (“Qatar Open 2022”) is only mentioned once at the beginning and is far from where the answer text “Anett Kontaveit” appears. This situation may cause LLMs to depend on information from other docu- ments and create false impressions, i.e., hallucination. (2) Evidence uncertainty. Before highly anticipated events, like the release of new Apple products or the an- nouncement of the Oscars, there is often a significant amount of speculative information circulating on the inter- net. Although the relevant documents explicitly state that it is uncertain or speculative content, they can still impact on the retrieval-augmented generation of LLMs. In Table 2, when the noise ratio increases, the content of erroneous documents is all about some people’s predictions about the name of the headset (“Apple Reality Pro”). Even if there is a correct answer (“Vision Pro”) in the relevant documents, LLMs can still be misled by uncertain evidences. (3) Concept confusion. The concepts in external docu- ments may be similar to, but different from, the concepts in the question. This can cause confusion for LLMs and make LLMs generate incorrect answers. In Table 2, the model an- swer focuses on the concept “automotive revenue” in the document rather than “revenue” in the question. Based on the analysis above, we have identified certain limitations in LLMs regarding retrieval-augmented genera- tion. To effectively handle the vast amount of noise present on the internet, further detailed enhancements are required for the model such as long documents modeling and precise concept comprehension. Results on Negative Rejection testbed We evaluated the rejection rate when only noise documents were provided. The results are shown in Table 3. In addi- tion to evaluating the rejection rate through exact matching (Rej in Table 3), we also utilize ChatGPT to determine if the responses from the LLMs contain any rejection informa- tion (Rej∗in Table 3). We can see that: Negative Rejection poses a challenge for RAG in LLMs. The highest rejection rates for LLMs in English and Chinese were only 45% and 43.33%, respectively. This suggests that LLMs can be easily misled by noisy documents, leading to incorrect answers.