KGs, which may hinder computational efficiency. Conversely, compact KGs may sacrifice important details, leading to potential information loss. This trade-off complicates the knowledge summarization process. Moreover, approaches like GraphRAG [24], which leverage LLMs for knowledge summarization, suffer from the high token costs and unbearable high runtime overhead. C. Hybrid GraphRAG This paradigm utilizes graph structures both as carriers of knowledge and as indexing tools. A common approach involves constructing a graph that encapsulates key information from the original text, with each node linked to corresponding text chunks. These text chunks act as a complementary knowledge source, providing detailed contextual information. To enhance long-context summarization, GoR [73] constructs a graph by creating nodes for text chunks and their LLM- generated responses to simulated queries, with edges linking the queries, the retrieved text chunks, and the responses. This structure captures complex correlations among the elements through query-specified indexing, offering a comprehensive representation for effective long-context global summarization. In the medical domain, MedGraphRAG [74] introduces a unique triple graph construction. This approach creates a triple-linked structure that connects user documents to cred- ible medical sources and controlled vocabularies, utilizing medical domain relations. This facilitates evidence-based medical responses with enhanced safety and reliability when handling private medical data. To enhance repo-level code tasks, CodexGraph [77] uses static analysis to construct a code graph that links source code symbols (e.g., MODULE, CLASS, FUNCTION) through edges denoting relationships (e.g., CONTAINS, INHERITS, USES). This graph acts as a knowledge carrier by implying the workflow or data flow of the code and serves as an index for the metadata (source code pieces) associated with each node. V. KNOWLEDGE RETRIEVAL Based on the well-built knowledge base with graph-based organization strategies, we need to conduct retrieval from the knowledge base. Specifically, given a user query and a graph knowledge base with dense information, retrieving factual information relevant to the given query from the knowledge base is very important in developing effective and efficient GraphRAG systems. This retrieval process forms the cornerstone of a robust GraphRAG architecture, directly impacting its overall performance and utility. In this section, we will introduce current knowledge retrieval methods for graph-based retrieval-augmented generation in detail. 11 A. Overall Pipeline of Knowledge Retriever The knowledge retrieval process in GraphRAG focuses on extracting relevant background knowledge from a graph database in response to a given query. This process follows three distinct and sequential steps that transform raw graph data into usable, contextual knowledge. 1) Query/Graph Preprocessing: The preprocessing stage operates simultaneously on both the query and graph databases to prepare them for efficient retrieval. For query preprocessing, the system transforms the input question into a structured representation through vectorization or key term extraction [47], [78], [79]. These representations serve as search indices for subsequent retrieval operations. On the graph side, the graph database undergoes more comprehensive processing where pre- trained language models transform graph elements (entities, relations, and triples) into dense vector representations that serve as retrieval anchors [22], [46], [80], [88]. Additionally, some advanced retrieval models apply