providing the correct answer directly, external references may serve as distractors. To mitigate this, it’s advisable for the model to discard external references and rely on its intrinsic knowl- edge. We achieve this by altering the question-answering prompt, guiding the model to rely solely on its internal knowledge. • Only External Knowledge Available. Conversely, in situations where only external knowledge is present, LLMs can be prone to hallucinations if they mistakenly believe they know the an- swer. To circumvent this, we ask the LLM to only rely on the provided references for its response. Erroneous Reasoning. Even if a model can answer questions consistently using both internal and external knowledge, errors may still occur during multi-step reasoning. To address the issue of faulty reasoning, we propose improvements from two perspectives: • Double-Checking the Reasoning Process. First, we aim to verify that each statement in our reasoning process is backed by evi- dence. To achieve this, we invoke the NLI model 𝑓to assess the groundedness of each statement 𝑠𝑖in the LLM output 𝑦. This will help determine which statements are supported by external references 𝐷𝑞= {𝑑1,𝑑2, ...} and which ones aren’t. Finally, the statements need to be double-checked are: 𝑆DC = n 𝑠𝑖|𝑓 h {𝑑𝑖}|𝐷| 𝑖=1 i ,𝑠𝑖  = 0 o . (7) For any statement that lacks evidence in 𝑆DC, we request the LLM to re-evaluate its correctness, ensuring that the LLM excludes any statement that doesn’t meet its confidence threshold. WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, & Zhicheng Dou • Providing Suggestions. In response to the common errors identi- fied during the evaluating phase, we ask the evaluator-critic LLM to provide specific suggestions for the question-answering LLM based on the specific error type by “ Please generate a statement that offers suggestions to prevent the occurrence of the {error type} in future reasoning processes”. These suggestions serve as guidance during the next round of answer reasoning. It’s worth noting that if no common errors are detected, we set a default suggestion “Please think step by step.” to guide its reasoning process. The planning at this stage primarily focuses on systematically re- ducing the model’s error rate when operating under conditions of comprehensive and consistent knowledge. 5 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 5.1 Datasets and Evaluation Metrics To test the ability of our proposed method on multi-hop reason- ing, we conduct experiments on two multi-hop question answering datasets: HotpotQA [38] and 2WikiMultiHopQA [7]. These two datasets are all constructed based on Wikipedia documents, allow- ing us to use the consistent document corpus and retrievers to provide external references for LLMs. Considering the constraints of experimental costs, following [12], we sub-sample 500 questions from the validation set of each dataset for experiments. For evaluation metrics, at answer-level, we use exact match (EM) to test whether the prediction is consistent with the reference an- swer. At token-level, following [12], we use token-level F1, precision (Prec.) and recall (Rec.) for comprehensive evaluation. 5.2 Baselines For comparison,