2023), AlpacaEval (Li et al. 2023b), OpenLLM Leaderboard (Edward Beeching 2023), etc. In addition to general abilities, there are also specific bench- marks that focus on evaluating the capabilities of models. For example, CValues (Xu et al. 2023a) focuses on the safety and responsibility of LLMs, M3Exam (Zhang et al. 2023) focuses on human exam and ToolBench (Qin et al. 2023) evaluates how well LLMs use external tools. Recently, Ad- lakha et al. (2023) evaluate the RAG of LLMs in exist QA dataset. Different from their work, we focus on 4 required abilities of RAG and create Retrieval-Augmented Genera- tion Benchmark to evaluate the LLMs. Retrieval-Augmented Generation Benchmark In this section, we first introduce the specific retrieval- augmented generation abilities we aim to evaluate. Next, we outline the process of constructing the RAG benchmark for evaluation. Lastly, we present the evaluation metrics. Required abilities of RAG External knowledge is the key to resolving the problems of LLMs such as hallucination and outdated knowledge, which can make LLMs generate more accurate and reliable responses through retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). However, LLMs cannot always response as expected with RAG. For one thing, there are numerous irrelevant docu- ments and false information on the Internet. Incorporating these external documents into LLMs could have a detrimen- tal effect. For anthoer, LLMs suffer from the unreliable gen- eration challenge. The generation of LLMs is often unpre- dictable, and we cannot guarantee that they will utilize the useful information entailed in the external documents. Ad- ditionally, LLMs can easily be misled by incorrect infor- mation in the document. To this end, we build Retrieval- Augmented Generation Benchmark (RGB) to evaluate the retrieval-augmented generation of LLMs, and we concern about 4 specific abilities: Noise Robustness is the robustness of LLMs in noisy documents. As retrievers are not perfect, the external knowl- edge they retrieve often contains a significant amount of noise, i.e., documents which are relevant to the question but do not contain any information about the answer. To effec- tively answer user questions, LLMs must be able to extract the necessary information from documents despite there are noisy documents. Negative Rejection is a measure of whether LLMs can decline to answer a question when none of the contexts pro- vide useful information. In real-world situations, the search engine often fails to retrieve documents containing the an- swers. In these cases, it is important for the model to have the capability to reject recognition and avoid generating mis- leading content. Information Integration is a capacity to integrate an- swers from multiple documents. In many cases, the an- swer to a question may be contained in multiple documents. For example, for the question “Who are the champions of the U.S. Open 2022 men’s and women’s singles?”, the two champions may be mentioned in different documents. In or- der to provide better answers to complex questions, it is nec- essary for LLMs to have the ability to integrate information. Counterfactual Robustness refers to a capacity to han- dle errors in