likely false but is not certain and is ignorant about the true belief, including deception by omission. However, the term “intentionally (Ward et al., 2023, p.6)” is substituted with “in order to accomplish some outcome (Our Research on Strategic Deception Presented at the UK’s AI Safety Summit, 2023),” by the Apollo Research Group (ARG). This adjustment aligns with Park et al.’s (2023) definition of strategic deception, emphasising instrumentality rather than intentionality, and framing the issue as existential risks rather than future predicted harms. Interestingly, the ARG presented their findings at the ASS. Their research demonstrated that the first LLMs, GPT-4, designed to be harmless and honest, can still display misaligned behaviour and strategically deceive their users (Scheurer et al., 2023). This research pushes towards examination of self-driven deception in LLMs in the future, scrutinising the possibility and nature of intent of deception that may change how deceptive AI is defined. Deceptive AI is an inherent phenomenon that accompanies the development of LLMs, and has the potential to be self-driven, operating without exposure to biassed training datasets. The stakeholders around AI deception include, but are not limited to, individuals with access to AI tools, developers, alignment teams, and evaluation teams in technology corporations, and regulating agents and governments on an international scale. Literature Review Strategic Deception, Imitation, Sycophancy, Unfaithful Reasoning Scholarly literature categorises deceptive behaviours exhibited by LLMs in various ways, fostering interdisciplinary connections. I will elucidate four types of deceptive AI, their associated risks, and social implications. 7 Strategic deception involves LLMs using deception as a tactic to achieve specific goals. For instance, GPT-4 deceived a human as having a vision disability to solve CAPTCHA’s “I’m not a robot” task (Park et al., 2023). It includes techniques like obfuscation, trickery, altering stimuli to mislead perception, to conduct unethical behaviours to win and overcome moral dilemmas. Other LLMs navigated text-based social deduction games, such as their engagement of deceived communications in Hoodwinked and Diplomacy, bluffing in Stratego (Bakhtin et al., 2022; O’Gara, 2023; Perolat et al., 2022). Imitation involves repetition of common misconceptions. LLMs will provide less accurate answers to users when introducing themselves as less educated or querying with typos or poor grammar, a condition also known as “Sandbagging” (Perez et al., 2022). Sycophancy, predicted to be a sophisticated type of imitation, aims to gain long-term favour and influence, which prompts issues of trust and delegation of decision-making to the AI system. LLMs engage in avoidance of disagreeing with authoritative users’ stances, disregarding accuracy, impartiality, especially in response to ethically complex and political queries. Models showed a tendency to endorse gun control when interacting with a Democrat user (Bai et al., 2023; Park et al., 2023; Perez et al., 2022). Unfaithful Reasoning involves providing false rationalisations for outputs, often incorporating biassed chain-of-thought prompting. In a stereotype bias test, GPT-3.5, irrespective of the narrative role assigned, fabricated a justification for a biassed conclusion that the black man was attempting to purchase drugs. UR demonstrates self-deception rooted in AI’s underlying predictions, biassed