as ‘causes” or preliminary subquestions to another given question where higher is better, but does not contain sub- questions that are not causes of the question, where lower is better. This prevents the assessment whether the subques- tion is merely taking place before the question without any causal relationship or is causally related to it. Datasets and tasks that are not for causality. It is also of concern that some datasets are, in our opinion, not even related to causal reasoning even though they are la- beled so. Some datasets are directly crafted from NLP tasks for assessing LLM language understanding. For example, the BIGbench entailed polarity (Karttunen 2012; Srivastava et al. 2022) task evaluates an LLM’s ability to detect en- tailed polarities from implicative verbs, as shown in Figure 7. This is by no means a causal reasoning task. In (Yang et al. 2022), LogiQA, Dream, RACE are also referred to as causal reasoning datasets, but we believe they are targeted at evaluating language understanding as they seem to assess reading comprehension rather than deduction of causal rela- tionships. Figure 7: Examples in Bigbench entailed polarity. Some other datasets in BigBench, like the speech detec- tion dataset (assessing whether a given figure of speech is a simile, metaphor, pun, etc.),cause and effect, Indic cause and effect (Srivastava et al. 2022) (mainly assessing lan- guage translation), are assessing language understanding rather than causal reasoning. We believe that these datasets are inadequate for evaluating causal reasoning and should hence be excluded for this purpose. Conclusion and future work We believe that building a reliable and robust assessment framework for causal reasoning with LLMs is timely and important. In this work, we collected and reviewed existing datasets and tasks, and pointed out issues of certain datasets in light of the three types of causal capabilities (Zhang et al. 2023) and the ladder of causation(Pearl and Macken- zie 2018). We highlight promising recent trends that present a more satisfactory and holistic evaluation of causal rea- soning. Ultimately, following the model of the widely pop- ular General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) framework (Wang et al. 2018) for general NLP evaluation, this work is a step towards the creation of a Causal Language Understanding Evalution (CLUE) framework, consisting of a minimal but exhaustive set of tasks that an LLM should be able to complete in order to be considered successful at causal reasoning. Synthesizing across simpler and more complex tasks, we note key commonalities that we believe a good benchmark or set of benchmarks should possess. First, in the context of the (Zhang et al. 2023) and (Pearl and Mackenzie 2018) hierarchies, we argue that an effective benchmark must deal with interventions and/or counterfactuals, being phrased in causal rather than merely correlative language. In addition, good performance of LLMs on existing tasks may be accounted to their remarkable data-processing and retrieval capabilities using billions of parameters as opposed to their causal reasoning capabilities (Kaddour et al. 2023). Some tasks offer multiple-choice answers to the LLM