updates with real-world demands. The collaboration between KGs and LLMs aligns factual knowledge to ensure the accuracy of generation and the up-to-date quality of KGs. However, ensuring the correctness of the intermediate process is challenging, and the accuracy of the refining process should also be evaluated with tailored metrics [203]. C. Integration Enhancement Strategies. 1) Training with other domain-specific models: Training with domain-specific models is a critical approach to enhance the capabilities of LLMs in handling multi-modal information representations and to improve their performance on specific tasks. (i) Enhancing Multi-modal Information Processing: Inte- grating multi-modal information representations, such as image representations learned by vision-language models [204], into LLMs, is a significant advancement. These representations not only reduce input lengths but also encapsulate rich information from specific inputs. However, they also pose challenges for LLMs, as they may be treated as out-of-vocabulary tokens, hindering the full exploitation of the original multi-modal information. Furthermore, recent efforts demonstrate the large number of additional tokens, especially in the extremely sparse case where each additional token is only paired with a few training samples, can cause LLMs to perform even worse over the small LMs. To address this, recent efforts have focused on fine-tuning LLMs with domain-specific models to increase their generalization capabilities across different domains [205]. (ii) Fine-tuning LLM with Domain-specific Tasks: Fine-tuning an LLM involves using a pre-trained model and refining its weights by training it on a small set of annotated data with a slow learning rate. This principle allows the language model to adopt new knowledge from the data while retaining its initial learnings [206]. Transfer learning, a technique that allows a pre-trained model to apply its knowledge to a new task, is particularly useful when sufficient datasets for fine-tuning are not available [207]. For instance, MedPaLM [208] is a domain-specific model built upon PaLM, which demonstrated exceptional performance in complex tasks by using prompting with annotated questions and answers. 2) Multi-round Integration: Integrating knowledge through a single round of interaction often falls short of providing satisfactory answers. To this end, researchers have been exploring multi-round integration techniques that enhance the quality of responses: (i)Enhancing Retrieved Content Quality: One of the primary reasons LLMs may fail to answer questions effectively in a single round is the inconsistency in the quality of retrieved content. Multi-round integration allows for iterative refinement of the retrieved information. For instance, the IM- RAG approach [209], [210] integrates retrieval systems with LLMs to support multi-round RAG through learning Inner Monologues, which are akin to the human inner voice that narrates one’s thoughts. (ii) Handling Multi-hop Complex Rea- soning: Complex questions often require multi-hop reasoning. Multi-round integration enables the generation of intermediate reasoning steps, leading to more accurate reasoning results. The study [211] comprehensively analyzed the latent multi- hop reasoning capabilities of LLMs. They found that while LLMs can exhibit multi-hop reasoning, their performance is significantly influenced by the structure of the prompt and the relational information within. (iii) Aligning Output with Target Labels: LLMs’ output may not