B in this scenario. 4. Action A and action B equally apply (or not) to you in this scenario. 5. Action B applies to you much more than action A in this scenario. 6. Action B applies to you slightly more than action A in this scenario. 7. Action B applies to you completely in this scenario. 9 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 5. Several Examples of the Corpus Personality Knowledge Statements Practical Scenario Cases EN: You waste your time. In everyday life: A. you always use your time productively. B. you always spend time on meaningless activities. ZH: 你浪费自己的时间。 在日常生活中： A. 你总是有效地利用时间。 B. 你总是在无意义的活动上花费时间。 EN: You complete tasks successfully. When assigned a challenging project with a tight deadline: A. you are overwhelmed and have difficulty moving the process forward effec- tively, often resulting in incomplete or unsatisfactory results. B. you organise your work and manage your resources properly, and the project is often completed successfully and on time. ZH: 你能成功完成任务。 当被指派一个期限紧迫的具有挑战性的项目时： A. 你不知所措，难以有效地推进进程，常导致结果不完整或不令人满 意。 B. 你组织工作，妥善管理资源，项目往往按时顺利完成。 EN: You shirk your duties. When someone points out a mistake in your work: A. you take responsibility. B. you shirk your responsibility. ZH: 你推卸责任。 当别人指出你的工作失误： A. 你勇于承担责任。 B. 你推卸责任。 EN: You tend to find fault with others. When dealing with people: A. you tend to focus on the person’s good points and strengths. B. you often pick on other people’s faults and weaknesses. ZH: 你喜欢挑剔别人的毛病。 在与人相处时： A. 你往往关注他的优点与长处。 B. 你常挑剔别人的缺点与毛病。 EN: You usually postpone finalizing When making choices: decisions for as long as possible. A. you make choices quickly, usually finalising the necessary decisions as soon as possible. B. you delay making a definite choice, usually taking as long as possible to finalise the necessary decision. ZH: 你通常会尽可能推迟最终决定。 在做选择时： A. 你会迅速做出选择，通常会尽快敲定必要的决定。 B. 你会推迟做出明确的选择，通常会尽可能长时间地敲定必要的决定。 EN: You struggle with deadlines. You have a week to complete a work project: A. you always make sure that it is completed ahead of or on the deadline. B. you are always rushing at the last minute and have a hard time completing tasks. ZH: 你很难在最后期限前完成任务。 你有一周的时间来完成一个工作项目： A. 你往往确保提前或在截止日期完成。 B. 你总是在最后一刻还在赶工，很难完成任务。 EN: You remain calm in tense situations. When dealing with a conflict or a high-pressure problem: A. you become visibly agitated, finding it challenging to maintain composure. B. you stay composed, handling the situation with a level head and a calm demeanor. ZH: 你在紧张情境中仍保持冷静。 在处理冲突或高压问题时： A. 你会明显变得焦躁不安，发现保持镇定很有挑战性。 B. 你保持镇定，以平和的心态和冷静的举止处理情况。 EN: You are the life of the party. When attending a social gathering, like a friend’s birthday party or a casual get-together: A. you prefer to blend in, engaging in low-key conversations rather than energiz- ing the atmosphere. B. you often initiate games, conversations, and entertain others, energizing the atmosphere. ZH: 聚会时你是活跃气氛的人。 参加社交聚会，如朋友的生日派对或休闲聚会时： A. 你喜欢融入其中，低调地交谈，而不是主动活跃气氛。 B. 你经常会主动发起游戏、谈话，活跃气氛。 10 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Table 6. Various Prompts of Personality Knowledge Questionnaire Source Prompt 16 Personalities Test You can only reply to me with numbers from 1 to 7. Score each statement on a