SpeechGPT (Zhang et al., 2023a), involve employing adapters that align pre- trained encoders in other modalities to textual LLMs. As these works take the dense features from the pre-trained encoders as additional non-textual information, they cannot efficiently model the in- teractions among multi-modal inputs and falter in the nuanced art of generating non-textual content. In order to compensate for this deficiency in the non-textual generation, some efforts, such as visual- ChatGPT (Chen et al., 2023c), Hugging-GPT (Shen et al., 2023), Audio-GPT (Huang et al., 2023), Next-GPT (Wu et al., 2023b), and MiniGPT-5 (Zheng et al., 2023) have sought to amalgamate the textual LLMs with some external generation tools, e.g., Stable Diffusion (Rombach et al., 2022), 1These authors contribute equally to this work. 1 arXiv:2311.04589v3 [cs.CL] 4 Jan 2024 Work in Progress DALL-E (Ramesh et al., 2021), Whisper (Radford et al., 2023). Unfortunately, these systems suf- fer from two critical challenges due to their complete pipeline architectures. First, the information transfer between different modules is entirely based on generated textual tokens, where the process may lose some multi-modal information and propagate errors (Wu et al., 2023b). Additionally, the external tools usually make the models complex and heavy, which consequently results in inefficient training and inference. Based on the above observation, we conclude that the emerging challenges in the previous works are mainly raised by their non-unified processing of the multi-modal inputs, where they encode the non-textual inputs into a dense and high-level feature, but tokenize the textual input into a token sequence. The non-unified processing introduces an extra burden for LLMs to model the interaction between multi-modal inputs and generate the non-textual samples. In a nutshell, if we can tokenize the interleaved multi-modal input into a token sequence and align the non-textual token embedding into the textual embedding space, the original textual LLMs can be easily transformed to handle non-textual understanding and generation tasks with parameters tuned as little as possible. In pursuit of this goal and inspired by the recent advancement of multi-modal tokenizers (Yu et al., 2023b; Chang et al., 2023; Peng et al., 2022; Borsos et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023a), we propose TEAL, a token-in-token-out MM-LLM designed to seamlessly handle the token input and output in any combination of three modalities: text, image, and audio. Specifically, TEAL comprises three tiers. First, we tokenize the input from any modality into a token sequence with the off-the-shelf tokenizers, such as BEiT-V2 and a Whisper-based audio tokenizer. Second, we insert a non-textual embedding matrix and output matrix into an open-source textual LLM, which enables the textual LLM to process the non-textual inputs and outputs. To align the non-textual embedding matrices with their textual counterparts, we equip them with a projection layer. Third, the generated tokens are routed to the corresponding de-tokenizers, which transform the token sequences into samples in different modalities. We conduct extensive experiments on the modalities of text, image, and audio. Experimental results show that TEAL achieves substantial improvements over previous works on multi-modal understanding and paves