label: D.5 Semantics Semantic Textual Similarity Given two sentences, produce a continuous valued similarity score on a scale from 0 to 5, with 0 indicating that the semantics of the sentences are completely independent and 5 indicating semantic equivalence. The output should be exactly in the form of a similarity score. sentence 1: {inputSentence1} sentence 2: {inputSentence2} score: Natural Language Inference You are provided with a premise and a hypothesis. Your task is to classify the hypothesis as true (entailment), false (contradiction), or unknown (neutral) based on the given premise. The output should be true, false or unknown. premise: {inputSentence1} hypothesis: {inputSentence2} output: Classification (Question Similarity) Are the following two questions semantically similar? The output should be exactly either yes or no. question 1: {inputQuestion1} question 2: {inputQuestion2} label: D.6 Question answering (QA) Your task is to answer questions in Arabic based on a given context. Note: Your answers should be spans extracted from the given context without any illustrations. You don't need to provide a complete answer. context:{context} question:{question} answer: E Post-processing Post-processing was needed for almost all tasks in order to match gold labels, which include refor- matting the output handling exceptions, missing values, and unexpected values. Much like NLP tasks, post-processing the transcription output from the speech models is an important step. We no- ticed that the performance of the Whisper models is highly dependent on the post-processing. As the models (Whisper family) are trained with massive dataset created by weak supervision, the output is quite noisy and needs extra care for post-processing. In this study, we opt for a simple post-processing pipeline so that the process is not overfitted to task- based data styles. F Benchmarks on Arabic: Details In this section, we discuss the work related to Ara- bic that has been conducted for benchmarking pur- poses. GPTAraEval (Khondaker et al., 2023) is a large- scale automated and human evaluation of ChatGPT in zero- and few-shot settings, covering 44 dis- tinct Arabic language understanding and generation tasks on 60 different datasets. The model is also compared to the open model BLOOMZ and two fine-tuned Arabic language models. Furthermore, comparison of ChatGPT and GPT-4’s performance on Modern Standard Arabic and Dialectal Arabic is conducted on a handful of tasks. It should be noted that the work only tested the models on a sample of 200 points from each of the evaluation test sets. ORCA (Elmadany et al., 2023), a large-scale benchmark that incorporates 60 diverse datasets organized into seven comprehensive task clusters. This large-scale organization allows for a more in- depth and diverse analysis of model performance across a multitude of language tasks including but not limited to sentence classification, text classifica- tion, structured prediction, semantic similarity, nat- ural language inference, question-answering, and word sense disambiguation. AraBench (Sajjad et al., 2020) is an evaluation suite for dialectal Arabic-to-English machine trans- lation. It offers a wide range of dialect categories including 4 coarse, 15 fine-grained, and 25 city- level dialects from various genres like media, chat, and