the backgrounds and historical preferences of their users. As LLM- powered conversational agents become more prevalent, the need for LLM personalization becomes increasingly apparent [43]. LLM personalization has diverse applications, from customizing educa- tional content and curating news feeds to improving e-commerce suggestions and delivering personalized healthcare information. Various approaches can be envisioned to personalize LLMs: (1) fine-tuning LLM parameters, either entirely or partially, for indi- vidual users, (2) integrating latent user representations with LLMs, and (3) enriching LLM prompts with user-specific content and/or context. The first two approaches involve adjusting LLM architec- ture and parameters, which is costly or even impractical in terms of storage, computation cost, and/or time. Besides, they cannot perform well for cold-start users. As an instantiation of retrieval- enhanced methods [55], the third approach, on the other hand, is applicable to any off-the-shelf LLM. To efficiently and effectively utilize the potentially extensive personal data for each active user, it is essential to implement a retrieval mechanism. As presented in Figure 1, this mechanism selects personal information that best enhances the LLM for the purpose of personalized text generation. This paper focuses on optimization of personal information re- trieval for the purpose of personalizing LLMs. For this purpose, standard learning-to-rank optimization methods are not applica- ble, since they typically require query-document-relevance triplets for training and it is not clear what documents is “relevant” for the downstream personalized text generation tasks. We study two retrieval optimization solutions for personalizing LLMs. First, we develop a reinforcement learning approach, where the training process involves sampling documents from the user’s profile with respect to the probabilities generated based on retrieval scores. The arXiv:2404.05970v1 [cs.CL] 9 Apr 2024 SIGIR ’24, July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. Alireza Salemi, Surya Kallumadi, and Hamed Zamani sampled documents are then fed to the LLM and its downstream performance for producing personalized output texts (using any arbitrary metric) is used to compute a reward function for optimiz- ing the retrieval model. Second, we optimize the retrieval model by distilling knowledge from the LLM. We minimize the divergence between the retrieval score distribution and a target distribution computed using the downstream performance of LLM on producing personalized output texts using each individual retrieved document. To gauge the efficacy of these two optimization methods, we apply them to train dense retrieval models for LLM personalization. Moreover, we observe that LLM personalization has multiple dimensions and existing retrieval models do not address all of them. For instance, retrieving recent user interactions may be needed for effective personalized text generation for an input, while a keyword- matching, a semantic matching, or a model that is aware of user’s writing style may be optimal for another input. According to this observation, we hypothesize that a retrieval selection model that selects a model from a diverse pool of retrievers can impact LLM personalization. Following this hypothesis, we further develop a pre- and a post-generation model mode for retrieval selection that decides what retrieval model should be chosen for each given input.