the interven- tions Alarcón-López et al. [1], Liu and Wang [16]. Cui and Zhao [4] conduct a qualitative assessment of students’ dialogue in a classroom setting. Future research should also consider longitudinal frameworks that track changes in independent cognitive abilities over time. 4 AUGMENTING PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING Designing technology to augment human capabilities has been one of the major objectives of technology development. In 1962, Engelbart [6] presents the intellect augmentation framework to delineate how we can design artifacts to augment human capabilities. He considers augmentation is achieved if humans are more eﬃcient in ﬁnding better solutions to complex problems. Engelbart [6] indicates that there are processes (”little steps or actions”) that take place in humans’ problem solving. Intellect augmentation can be accomplished by making any of these processes eﬃcient and better. It is worth noting that within his framework, intellect augmentation is not of human but of a system where humans with augmenta- tion means—which he referred as “H-LAM/T”system (Humans using Language, Artifacts, and Methodology). Detailed description of each component is included in Table 2. While Engelbart’s framework provides an insightful road map for intellect augmentation, the rapid evolution of AI and intelligent technologies has necessitated expanding these foundational ideas. Xia and Maes [25] provides a new interpretation of intellect that goes beyond problem solving, extending it to other cognitive domains of human capabilities such as memory, motivation, and decision making. Building upon the intellect augmentation framework, they derive steps for designing artifacts that support augmentation of diﬀerent cognitive domains: 1) consider the Manuscript submitted to ACM 4 Mei et al. desired state after augmentation; 2) identify the processes for the task; 3) identify how artifacts can change a process or processes. Based on these augmentation frameworks, we interpret what it means to augment human critical thinking via AI systems. To augment critical thinking, the distinction between performed and demonstrated critical thinking presents diﬀerent design paths for AI systems. Augmenting demonstrated critical thinking focuses on the quality of the ﬁnal output or collaborative process that is associated with individuals’ critical thinking. Augmenting performed critical thinking emphasizes the improvement of independent critical thinking activity after the interaction with AI systems. Building upon the deﬁnition of Bloom et al. [2] for critical thinking, augmentation of demonstrated critical thinking can be accomplished by improving the ﬁnal output associated with any of the components (e.g. knowledge, comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, evaluation). For example, current conversational AI systems can explain complex concepts to individuals, enabling more eﬃcient and rapid comprehension, thus augmentation is accomplished. Yet it does not necessarily augment individuals’ performed comprehension skill. On the contrary, overrelying on AI assistance to comprehend complex concepts may negatively impact individuals’ independent comprehension capability as they practice it less on their own. Both forms of augmentation serve important but distinct purposes in human-AI collaboration. Augmenting demon- strated critical thinking may be particularly valuable in time-sensitive contexts, collaborative workﬂows, or when addressing highly complex problems that exceed individual cognitive capacity. Meanwhile, augmenting performed critical thinking