Best Fields queries achieved the highest efficiency, of 65.70% on the HotPotQA dataset. Fig. 6: NQ dataset Benchmarking using NDCG@10 Metric TABLE II: Retriever Benchmarking using NDCG@10 Metric Dataset Model/Pipeline NDCG@10 Trec-covid COCO-DR Large 0.804 Trec-covid Blended RAG 0.87 NQ dataset monoT5-3B 0.633 NQ dataset Blended RAG 0.67 A. Retriever Benchmarking Now that we have identified the best set of combinations of Index + Query types, we will use these sextet queries on IR datasets for benchmarking using NDCG@10 [9] scores (Normalised Discounted Cumulative Gain metric). 1) NQ dataset benchmarking: The results for NDCG@10 using sextet queries and the current benchmark on the NQ dataset are shown in the chart Figure 7. Our pipeline provides the best NDCG@10 score of 0.67, which is 5.8% higher than the current benchmark score of 0.633 achieved by the monoT5-3B model. Table II shows that all semantic search- based hybrid queries outperform the current benchmark score, which indicates that our hybrid queries are a better candidate for developing the RAG pipeline. 2) TREC-Covid Dataset Benchmarking : In our research, the suite of hybrid queries devised has demonstrably exceeded the current benchmark of 0.80 NDCG@10 score, signaling their superior candidature for the RAG pipeline. Figure 7 shows the results for NDCG@10 using sextet queries. Blended Retrievers achieved an NDCG@10 score of 0.87, which marks an 8.2% increment over the benchmark score of 0.804 estab- lished by the COCO-DR Large model (Table II). 3) SqUAD Dataset Benchmarking: The SqUAD (Stanford Question Answering Dataset) [10] is not an IR dataset, but we evaluated the retrieval accuracy of the SquAD dataset for consistency. Firstly, we created a corpus from the SqUAD dataset using the title and context fields in the dataset. Then, we indexed the corpus using BM25, dense vector, and Sparse Encoder. The top-k (k=5,10, and 20) retrieval accuracy results Fig. 7: TREC-Covid Dataset Benchmarking using NDCG@10 Metric for the SqUAD dataset are calculated. Table III illustrates that for SQuAD, dense vector (KNN)-based semantic searches achieve higher accuracy than sparse vector-based semantic searches and traditional similarity-based searches, particularly for top-k retrieval performance with k values of 5, 10, and 20. (See Appendix for more details) B. Summary of Retriever Evaluation We evaluated the retrieval accuracy using our approach, quantified by Top-k metrics where k ∈{5, 10, 20}, across NQ, TREC-COVID, SQUAD, and CoQA datasets. This synopsis demonstrates the capability of our Blended Retrieval method- ology within diverse informational contexts. Key observations are • Enhanced retrieval accuracy is exhibited in all datasets except for CoQA [11]. This enhancement is attributable to the capability of our hybrid queries to effectively utilize available metadata to source the most pertinent results. • Implementing dense vector-based (KNN) semantic search results in a marked improvement over keyword-based search approaches. • Employing semantic search-based hybrid queries realizes better retrieval precision compared to all conventional keyword-based or vector-based searches. • Furthermore, it is discernible that the Sparse Encoder- based semantic search, when amalgamated with the ’Best Fields’ hybrid query, often provides superior results than any