is necessary as passing the entirety of a patients’ clinical notes through an LLM is intractable given the sheer size of clinical notes, even in the context of a MapReduce paradigm. We divided each clinical note into snippets of 2,048 “tokens” (i.e., the vocabulary of characters, words or subwords an LLM uses to partition free text) in size and then employed Regex to identify relevant snippets. Regex rules encompassed a broad spectrum of patterns that could potentially be associated 2 with any mention of a specific medical condition, such as PH (Appendix A.1). Subsequently, all Regex-retrieved patient snippets are fed into the LLM to determine the diagnosis status. Querying While the RAG approach reduces the amount of text processed by the LLM, RWD clinical notes often comprise many pages of text. Consequently, the Regex retriever is still likely to return a large number of snippets, which may exceed the LLM’s context window. To address this, we employed a MapReduce approach where each snippet is concurrently presented as context to the LLM, along with a set of instructions to facilitate decision-making (i.e., the "map" phase). Generated outputs, one per snippet, are then aggregated to form the final decision (i.e., the "reduce" phase). Aggregation We evaluated two aggregation approaches for the “reduce” phase: (1) an LLM-based approach, which aggregates the output and reasoning from each individual snippet query into a larger prompt for a final decision by an LLM through prompting; and (2) a Max aggregation function, which checks if any of the individual snippet queries returned a positive diagnosis and, if so, assigns a positive label to the patient as a whole. In the LLM aggregation approach, we explored two variations: (1) apply the same prompt that was provided at the snippet level to aggregate responses; and (2) apply a different prompt that asks the LLM if any of the responses indicated a positive diagnosis. 3 Evaluation Design Pulmonary Hypertension PH is a condition characterized by abnormally elevated pressure in the arteries of the lung and right side of the heart. While the prevalence of specific PH etiologies may vary across groups, it is broadly categorized as a rare disease with an estimated global prevalence rate of 1-3% [16]. Building a PH phenotype is complicated by the fact that the hemodynamic definition of PH has changed over time [17]. This means that there are some patients who would be currently identified as having PH under the new definition, would not have been diagnosed with PH during the time of their original treatment or workup. The ability to systematically identify PH patients who would otherwise not be identified could significantly impact patient outcomes. Dataset We utilized de-identified clinical notes from a medium-sized health system serving a population of approximately 2.2 million patients (as of December 2022). Given the expected low prevalence rate of PH within this population, we created an enriched cohort of patients displaying any clinical evidence of PH in either the structured data or clinical notes. From this cohort, we