(h) English-Russian Figure 4: Accuracy score of Llama2-chat in non-adversarial experiments Khot, 2022). Llama2 and Llama2-chat Figures 7 and 8 pro- vide the results of the Llama2 and Llama2-chat models respectively. Similar to the previous non- adversarial scenarios, Llama2 models with zero- shot examples show consistent inverse scaling across all translation directions. However, just as before, only X-to-English directions should be con- sidered valid examples as the model is not able to translate from the opposite direction under the zero-shot schema, achieving BLEU scores below 10. On the other hand, the model performance ex- hibits positive or mild U-shape scaling under the few-shot scenario. The Llama2-chat models show a very obvious U- shape scaling (figure 8), in contrast with the posi- tive scaling observed on the non-adversarial exam- ples. 3.3 Inverse Scaling w.r.t. training data size Previous work on scaling laws in LLMs (Kaplan et al., 2020b) and neural machine translation mod- els (Ghorbani et al., 2021) investigated the rela- tionship between the size of the training data, in addition to model size, and performance, revealing positive scaling w.r.t. data size. The LLMs in our experiment are pre-trained on English-dominated corpora crawled from the internet, and in the case of instruction-tuned models, the English data also likely dominates the other languages. However, in our experiments we find that mod- els are more likely to answer the source questions rather than translate them when they are written in English, even on non-adversarial examples, which is a clean case of Inverse Scaling w.r.t. training data size. This is likely due to the source question, with or without the adversarial prefix, acting as a stronger distractor when it occurs in the language the model is more familiar with. While we are not able to characterize this phe- (a) T5 (b) FLAN-T5 Figure 5: Accuracy of T5 and FLAN-T5 in adversarial experiments (a) German-English (b) French-English (c) Russian-English (d) English-German (e) English-French (f) English-Russian Figure 6: accuracy score of OpenAI models of in adversarial experiments nomenon as a precise scaling law, as accurate train- ing corpus size and proportion of English vs. non- English data are not publicly known for most model families, we do note that the effect is strong and consistent across all model families, model sizes and languages. In table 2 we provide the average accuracies across all models and both clean and adversarial examples for all language pairs. 4 Discussion and Related Work Our experiments show that most LLM families show positive or flat scaling w.r.t. model size on non-adversarial examples, tend to exhibit inverse or non-monotonic scaling on adversarial examples containing a prompt injection attack, especially when operating in zero-shot mode. The experiment results on Llama2 models (fig- ure 3 and 7) show that inverse scaling can be avoided with even a single in-context parallel ex- ample, a similar conclusion was also made in Wei et al. (2023), where they use few-shot examples to reverse the inverse scaling in several tasks that previously exhibited inverse scaling. Another potential mitigation