domain-invariant representations, enabling generalization to different downstream LLMs and unseen domains without retraining. Contrastive loss. As illustrated in Figure 4, for a given pair (xi ⊕ci, xj ⊕cj) with similarity indicator Iij (Iij = 0 for positive pairs with the same reranker, Iij = 1 for negative pairs Algorithm 6: Joint Contrastive Training Input: Query embedding pairs (xi, xj), chunk embeddings (ci, cj), labels (yi, yj), params (pi, pj), similarity indicator Iij (0 for same class, 1 for different class) Output: models fθ, gθ and hθ 1 Initialize fθ with projection head; 2 for epoch = 1 to N do 3 for batch (xi, xj, ci, cj, Iij, yi, yj, pi, pj) do 4 zi ←fθ(xi ⊕ci), zj ←fθ(xj ⊕cj) ypred i ←gθ(zi), ppred i ←hθ(zi); 5 ypred j ←gθ(zj), ppred j ←hθ(zj); 6 Lcon ← (1 −Iij)∥zi −zj∥2 + Iij max(0, γ −∥zi −zj∥)2 Lcla ←CE(ypred i , yi) + CE(ypred j , yj); // CE is the cross-entropy loss 7 Lreg ←∥ppred i −pi∥2 + ∥ppred j −pj∥2; 8 Update θ using ∇θ(Lcon + Lcla + Lreg); with different rerankers), we first generate their corresponding feature maps with the encoding model fθ. These feature maps are then utilized to compute the contrastive loss Lcon. As shown in Algorithm 6, the contrastive loss uses the similarity indicator Iij to handle both positive and negative pairs in a unified formulation. This loss function is designed to ensure that query-data pairs with the same reranker are brought closer together in the embedding space, while those with different rerankers are distanced. 3) Whole training process: As shown in Algorithm 6, we implement the complete training process by designing a loss function Ltotal that combines contrastive, classification, and regression losses as follows: Ltotal(θ) = Lcon(θ) + Lcla(θ) + Lreg(θ). In particular, the contrastive loss Lcon(θ) encourages the embeddings of queries with the same optimal reranker to be close together, while pushing apart the embeddings of queries with different rerankers. The classification loss Lcla(θ) aids the model in correctly identifying the reranker using cross-entropy, and the regression loss Lreg(θ) minimizes the error in predicting the optimal MCTS configuration. Complexity Analysis We analyze the computational complex- ity of both training and inference procedures for the Configura- tion Agent. (1) During offline training, we adopt a contrastive learning framework that processes N training pairs in each batch. The computational cost of generating embeddings is O(N · TE), where TE denotes the embedding generation time for a single sample. Subsequently, each embedding is passed through our lightweight configuration network, incurring an additional cost of O(N ·TS), where TS represents the process- ing time per sample in this smaller network. Since the con- figuration network is significantly smaller and faster than the embedding network (e.g., BGE-M3), we have TS ≪TE. Thus, the total training time complexity is dominated by embedding generation: O(N · TE + N · TS) = O(N · TE). This implies that the training complexity scales linearly with the number of training samples. (2) For