graph. Prominent eﬀorts have been the DBPedia [1] and Freebase [2]. Re- searchers have found that query expansion using knowledge bases can improve ad-hoc retrieval [6, 33]. Others have investigated how to include knowledge graph features directly in learning-to-rank approaches [29]. Other eﬀorts have been in how to train embeddings for entities and relations in knowledge graphs. Prominent approaches include translational embeddings (TransE) [3], trans- lational hyperplane embeddings (TransH) [32], and holographic embeddings (HolE) [23]. Knowledge graphs have also been employed extensively for gen- eral question answering tasks [35, 30]. In this work, we observe that entity similarity act as a signal for answers that are otherwise diﬃcult to match (i.e., when facets are low-utility). We build a knowledge graph from Wikipedia arti- cles using entity mentions and heading labels. We then train embeddings, and use embedding similarities when ranking answers. 3 Method As mentioned in Section 2, complex answer retrieval (CAR) is a new IR task focused on retrieving complex answers to questions that include a topic and facet. Paragraphs from authoritative resources (e.g., Wikipedia) are consid- ered partial answers for these questions. Identifying and overcoming low-utility 8 Sean MacAvaney et al. facets is a central challenge to CAR [17]. Here, we propose approaches based on the Wikipedia-focused CAR problem: – High-utility facets. We ﬁnd that high-utility facets correspond to headings that relate to speciﬁc details of an article’s topic: topical headings. Thus, a given topical heading is unlikely to appear in most articles. However, we predict that terms found in topical headings are more likely to appear in relevant paragraphs because people are less likely to have the existing knowledge to determine meaning from the mentioned entities. Since the title of an article is the article’s topic, it is necessarily topical. – Low-utility facets. We identify that low-utility facets often correspond to structural headings in Wikipedia. These headings provide coherence across articles by enforcing a standard document structure. As a result, these headings occur frequently. Furthermore, they often appear as intermediate headings by organizing topical headings below them. Since the terminology is necessarily more general, we predict that terms in structural headings are less likely to appear in relevant paragraphs because readers can ﬁgure out the context by related entities. Thus, we propose including additional entity similarity information to accommodate these cases. Recall that an interaction-focused neural ranker (Figure 3a) involves two phases: a matching phase that identiﬁes places in the document in which query terms are used (e.g., convolution), and a combination phase in which the scores for each query term are combined to produce a ﬁnal relevance score (e.g., dense). In the remainder of this section, we present two approaches to inform an arbitrary interaction-focused neural ranker of facet utility (Section 3.1-3.2, Figure 3b-c), and one approach to include entity similarity signals to inform the model of relevance for low-utility facets using knowledge base embedding similarity scores (Section 3.3, Figure 3d). Finally, we describe our implemen- tation strategy for a concrete neural ranker (PACRR, Section 3.4).