into natural language descriptions that are coherent and fluent. External knowledge base: Following (Wang et al., 2023c; Wei et al., 2021; Cheng et al., 2023), we construct the external knowledge base as the union of a total of 30 publicly available datasets from 9 distinct categories with over 6 million documents. Metrics For generation tasks, we leverage ROUGE-L to quantify the quality of generations. ROUGE-L measures the longest common subsequence between a candidate generation and reference texts and is typically adopted for generation quality evaluations across the literature (Lin, 2004; Gatt & Krahmer, 2018). A low ROUGE-L implies poor quality generations and accordingly a high generation risk. Therefore, we adopt the risk function as 1 −ROUGE-L to bound the risk in [0, 1]. Note that C-RAG is agnostic to selection of risk functions, and thus, practitioners can specify any function that suits their specific use cases. Retrieval models We consider four types of retrieval models. (1) BM25 (Robertson et al., 2009) is a sparse encoding metric used to rank the candidate documents given a query in information retrieval tasks. BM25 scores are linearly weighted combinations of token-level scores and can be analytically formulated as a function of term frequency, inverse document frequency, and length of documents. (2) BAAI general embedding (BAAI/bge) (Zhang et al., 2023a) trains the SOTA 33 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Algorithm 4 Shifted distribution sampling protocol. 1: Input: original test set D, test sample pool Dpool, Risk function R(·, ·) : X × Y 7→R 2: Output: empirical risk on the shifted test set Q ˆRQ, Hellinger distance between D and Q HPQ 3: Randomly sample Q from Dpool with equalized set size as D: |Q| = |D| 4: Randomly sample the sample weight vector of Q w ∈∆|D| 5: Compute Hellinger distance as HPQ = q 1 −P|D| i=1 p wi/|D| 6: Evaluate risks for all samples in Q with risk function R(·, ·): ˆRQ ∈R|D| 7: Compute the empirical risk on Q with weight vector w: ˆRQ = wT ˆRQ 8: Return ˆRQ, HPQ Evaluation Risk AESLC Hellinger Distance CommonGen Hellinger Distance DART Hellinger Distance E2E Hellinger Distance Figure 11: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risks with Biencoder-SFT under distribution shifts with Nrag = 15, λg = 1, λs = 1.0. embedding model in the MTEB benchmark (Muennighoff et al., 2022) and supports the diverse retrieval augmentation needs of LLMs by a reward formulation based on LLMs’ feedback, the stabilization of knowledge distillation, multi-task fine-tuning with explicit instructions, and homogeneous in-batch negative sampling. (3) OpenAI ada-text-embedding-02 (OpenAI/ada) is a close source text embedding models designed to convert text into high-dimensional vectors, which capture the semantic meaning of the input text and can be used for a variety of tasks, such as text similarity, classification, and clustering. (4) Biencoder-supervised fine-tuning (Biencoder-SFT) (Wang et al., 2023c) is a bi-encoder based dense retriever trained with contrastive loss and hard negative sampling strategies. It iteratively trains the retrieval model with hard negative samples identified