A Critical Review of Causal Reasoning Benchmarks for Large Language Models Linying Yang1, Vik Shirvaikar1, Oscar Clivio1, Fabian Falck1 1Department of Statistics, University of Oxford Corresponding author: linying.yang@stats.ox.ac.uk Abstract Numerous benchmarks aim to evaluate the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) for causal inference and rea- soning. However, many of them can likely be solved through the retrieval of domain knowledge, questioning whether they achieve their purpose. In this review, we present a compre- hensive overview of LLM benchmarks for causality. We high- light how recent benchmarks move towards a more thorough definition of causal reasoning by incorporating interventional or counterfactual reasoning. We derive a set of criteria that a useful benchmark or set of benchmarks should aim to satisfy. We hope this work will pave the way towards a general frame- work for the assessment of causal understanding in LLMs and the design of novel benchmarks. Introduction The recent explosion in Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to widespread consideration of their capabilities across a spectrum of human endeavors (Srivastava et al. 2022). One of these areas is causal inference, where multiple bench- marks and tasks have been proposed in an attempt to gauge LLM performance (Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023; Zhang et al. 2023; Gao et al. 2023). In this paper, we present a critical review of these benchmarks. Building on existing “causal hierar- chies” (Pearl and Mackenzie 2018), we taxonomise exist- ing tasks into this hierarchy, highlighting how many of these tasks only address the lowest level of ‘causal’ reasoning. We then propose a set of criteria that a benchmark should fulfill in order to be useful for evaluating an LLM’s causal reason- ing capabilities. Causal hierarchies. In this review, our goal is to propose criteria that make a benchmark task suitable for evaluating causal reasoning. We guide this by drawing upon existing taxonomies and hierarchies of causal reasoning in the litera- ture. Zhang et al. (2023) propose a three-level hierarchy for as- sessing the causal capabilities of an LLM: • Type 1: “Identifying causal relationships using domain knowledge.” Example: Person: I am balancing a glass of water on my head. Suppose I take a quick step to the right. What will happen to the glass? Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. • Type 2: “Discovering new knowledge from data.” Example: Here are outcomes for our business if we tried strategy A vs. strategy B: [text about outcomes]. Which one leads to greater success? • Type 3: “Quantitatively estimating the consequences of actions.” Example: The patient got doses X and Y of certain medicines last time and reported a 40% decrease in blood pressure. What dose Z should I give the patient this time? Current LLMs can generally answer Type 1 questions effec- tively due to their large repository of world knowledge, but struggle to answer Type 2 and Type 3 questions, or can only do so with extensive additional prompting strategies (Zhang et al. 2023). The ladder of causation