knowledge base.) • Reasoning: Questions designed to enhance the need for reasoning to answer them effectively (at least one leap of intuition required to correlate the answer to the correct information from the knowledge base). – Multi-Context: Questions that necessitate information from multiple related sections or chunks to formulate an answer. • Situational: Questions that include additional context to evaluate the ability of the model to produce relevant answers according to the context. – Distracting: Questions made to confuse the model’s reasoning ability with a distracting element from the knowledge base that is irrelevant to the question. • Double Questions: Questions with two distinct parts and answers, with or without connec- tion to one another. A.2 Question Generation Prompts A.2.1 Baseline Output Structure We used the following structured output format for few-shot prompting baseline question generation. [ { "question": "In what year did Jann Wenner complete secondary education at Chadwick School ?", "answer": "Jann Wenner completed secondary education at Chadwick School in 1963." }, ... // more question -answer pairs follow ] A.2.2 Simple Question Generation Prompt Your role is to generate evaluation questions based a knowledge base, a subsection of which is provided to you as a list of context paragraphs. We are building a testset for a model. Assume the model that is being tested cannot see the context when answering the question. Your question must be related to a provided context. Please respect the following rules to generate the question: - The answer to the question should be found inside the provided context - The question must be self -contained - in other words, the question must explicitly state any necessary titles, names, or terms. Assume that the model to be tested with this testset has no prior knowledge of the context. Avoid using pronouns or references that are not explicitly mentioned in the context. Additionally, there must be a singular and clear answer to the question. Ensure that the potential answer to the question has not changed since the context was provided. - The question and answer must be in this language: {language} The user will provide the context, consisting of multiple paragraphs delimited by dashes "------". 8 You will return a question based exclusively on the provided context. You will output a list of {num_questions} JSON objects with key ’question ’ mapping to the generated question, without any other wrapping text or markdown. Ensure that you will only return valid JSON for example: [{{"question": "xx", "question_type": "simple"}}, {{"question": "xx", "question_type": "simple"}}, ... A.2.3 Reasoning Question Evolution Prompt """ Your role is to modify evaluation questions generated from a knowledge base, a subsection of which is provided to you as a list of context paragraphs. You will be given simple questions that need to be modified to include complex reasoning and logical connections between different pieces of data within the provided context. Evolve the provided simple questions into questions into questions designed to enhance the need for reasoning to answer them effectively (at least one leap