Demonstrations for ReAct on MuSiQue. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # {Knowledge} Question: In which year did the publisher of In Cold Blood form? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What business published In Cold Blood? Intermediate answer: In Cold Blood was published in book form by Random House. Follow up: Which year witnessed the formation of Random House? Intermediate answer: Random House was form in 2001. So the final answer is: 2001 # {Knowledge} Question: Who was in charge of the city where The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: In which city was The Killing of a Sacred Deer filmed Intermediate answer: The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed in Cincinnati. Follow up: Who was in charge of Cincinnati? Intermediate answer: The present Mayor of Cincinnati is John Cranley, so John Cranley is in charge. So the final answer is: John Cranley # {Knowledge} Question: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is the city that Signal Hill overlooks? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What city does Signal Hill overlook? Intermediate answer: Signal Hill is a hill which overlooks the city of St. John’s. Follow up: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is St. John’s located? Intermediate answer: St. John’s is located on the eastern tip of the Avalon Peninsula. So the final answer is: eastern tip Table 19: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Self-Ask on MuSiQue. {Knowledge} Question: In which year did the publisher of In Cold Blood form? Let’s think step by step. In Cold Blood was first published in book form by Random House. Random House was form in 2001. So the answer is 2001 {Knowledge} Question: Who was in charge of the city where The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed? Let’s think step by step. The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed in Cincinnati. The present Mayor of Cincinnati is John Cranley. Therefore, John Cranley is in charge of the city. So the answer is John Cranley {Knowledge} Question: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is the city that Signal Hill overlooks? Let’s think step by step. Signal Hill is a hill which overlooks the city of St. John’s. St. John’s is located on the eastern tip of the Avalon Peninsula. So the answer is eastern tip Table 20: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on MuSiQue. {Knowledge} Question: When did the first prime minister of the Russian Empire come into office? The answer is 1905-11-06 00:00:00 {Knowledge} Question: The most populous city in Punjab is how large (area wise)? The answer is 310 square kilometers {Knowledge} Question: What is the capital of the country where yoga originated? The answer is New Delhi Table 21: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on