differential pressure gradient field, P(x, r, t) = f(r(x, t)) (4) Consequently, the classical solution in the case of a single harmonic frequency, ω is given by P(x, r, t) = Ae(i(ωt−kxx−krr)) + Be(i(ωt−kxx+krr)) (5) Such that Ae(i(ωt−kxx−krr)) is the wave travelling in the +x direction (frontier wave) and Be(i(ωt−kxx+krr)) is the wave travelling in the -x direction (reﬂected wave) (see Figure 2 below) and both are solutions to the classical wave equation and kx and kr = wave number. 3 Figure 2: Interface showing Forward Propagating Wave and Reﬂected Wave. For practical consideration, we simply take A and B to be the mean power of the generated incident pulse from the nano-engineered pulse generator shown in ﬁgure 3. The observed echo reﬂections from the incident pulse are recorded and inverted to determine the set of related arterial radius using a Deep Physics neural network model that is trained to solve the inverse problem using the values of the observed pressure ﬁeld. Acoustic ”Time of ﬂight” measurements are recorded with every reading and used to determine changes in blood density as a possible indicator of increased angiogenesis progenitors. The data from the Deep Physics model estimating the variation of the radii ﬁeld due to the pressure gradient in the arterial blood vessel as well as fractional changes in the blood density between measurements is fed to a Large Language Model (LLM) that estimates the likelihood of a vaso-occlusive episode over a pre-deﬁned time scale. Mathematically, Let V be such that V = ( 1, Vaso-occlusive Episode 0, otherwise (6) . 4 Figure 3: A schematic of the Adaptive Sickle Cell Monitor. The LLM estimates the likelihood that at time, t = 0 (present) the patient is having a vaso-occlusive episode, i.e. Pr(V = 1 | t = 0, Biophysics Data) and compares it with the likelihood of having the episode at regular intervals in the future with t taking on discrete values from Z+ i.e., {1, 2, 3, . . .}. The chosen time period is the one that maximizes the probability. An upper bound is chosen to limit how far in the future the algorithm is needed. Time To Episode(TTE) = max i∈{1,2,3,...} Pr(V = 1 | t = i, Biophysics Data) (7) In practice the actual temporal gap between the discrete time steps can be tuned as needed. In addition to the LLM computing the TTE, it is calibrated to provide informal recommendations on the next steps based on the estimated TTE. Where the infrastructure allows, the LLM has the option to contact the emergency hotline and communicate with emergency personnel on behalf of a patient. 3 Conclusion Overall, the proposed ambulatory device has the potential to signiﬁcantly im- prove sickle cell management by providing real-time information on anemia severity and reducing the frequency of vaso-occlusive crises by incorporating Large Language Models (LLMs) and specialized ML models to assess anemia severity in sickle cell patients in real-time. Reliable nano-engineered sensors are 5 critical to dependably measure indicators of