& Wikidata image retrieval Image-to-image retrieval is another way to ap- proach the VWSD task via unimodal represen- tations. For this reason, following the idea of (Dadas, 2023) we exploit the Wikipedia API to retrieve all relevant articles corresponding to the given phrase t, and we keep the primary image iw from each article. Consequently, we post-process the retrieved image set by considering a maximum of k=10 Wikipedia images per t. The same process is repeated for Wikidata (Vrandeˇci´c and Krötzsch, 2014). We obtain embedding representations for the retrieved images iw, as well as for the candidate images i, using the same VL transformers as in mul- 2Distance metrics are also denoted as ’similarity metrics’ throughout this paper timodal retrieval. Finally, we search for the embed- dings lying closer together in the embedding space (using cosine similarity or euclidean/manhattan dis- tance) according to score(iw, i). 5. Learn to Rank Similarly to Dadas (2023), we implement a lightweight Learning to Rank (LTR) model that harnesses features extracted from our aforementioned experiments. LGBMRanker with lambdarank objective3, implemented upon the LightGBM gradient boosting framework (Ke et al., 2017), is selected as the LTR module. The selected input features for the LTR model represent relationships between each given phrase and the candidate images extracted from the pre- vious 4 approaches. Specifically, the following steps (a)-(e) are selected to craft features corre- sponding to the baseline case. In a similar way, the steps a-e are repeated for score(te, i) (LLM enhancement), score(t, ck i )/score(te, ck i ) (caption- phrase retrieval/enhanced caption-phrase retrieval) and score(iw, i) (image retrieval). We train the LTR module on several combinations of the de- signed features; also, different similarity (cosine) and distance (euclidean/manhattan) scores are at- tempted within these combinations, while the con- tribution of considering p(i) is evaluated, both in the baseline VL retrieval (eq. 1), as well as in the LLM-enhanced VL retrieval module (eq. 2). (a) score(t, i) (b) max(score(t, i)) (c) mean(score(t, i)) (d) difference a-b (e) difference a-c In order to further advance LTR performance, we attempt to combine features from enriched phrases te derived from different LLMs. 6. Question-answering for VWSD and CoT prompting Based on the zero-shot question- answering setting of Kritharoula et al. (2023), we incorporate the given phrase t within a question template, providing 10 answer choices from A to J that correspond to extracted captions ci from the candidate images i = A, B, ..., J for each t. In the case that beam search was used during captioning, all k=10 captions for each i are concatenated and separated by comma to form each answer choice. 3LGBMRanker docs Moreover, based on Kojima et al. (2023) we utilize chain-of-thought (CoT) prompts to obtain expla- nations regarding the reasoning process the LLM follows when selecting an answer. All resulting QA prompts (Tab. 2) are provided to GPT-3.5-turbo. 3 Experimental results The VWSD dataset is comprised of 12869 training samples and 463 test samples; each sample con- tains 10 images (Appendix A). All