observing the captions comprising the answer choices of the question Q, we confirm that the extracted caption for the golden candidate (C) is sensible and accu- rate ("a student gets a hug from a student"); thus, GPT-3.5-turbo cannot connect the phrase "tender embrace" with the correct caption (C), leading to failure, as seen in Tab. 21. On the other hand, when no_CoT prompting is used, GPT-3.5-turbo success- fully returns the right answer. We can observe that even though the model does indeed understand the sense of the ambiguous phrase "tender embrace" with respect to the answer choices, it cannot re- trieve the appropriate choice under CoT prompting. Therefore, we mark this case as an inherent failure of CoT disambiguation. Example 2 Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the tender em- brace? Answer Choices: (A) a small boat sitting on top of a dock. (B) a group of people walking on a green hill. (C) a student gets a hug from a student. (D) a large fly laying on a rock in the water. (E) the bus stop at the station (F) a train is parked at a station. (G) a crowd of people watching a concert. (H) a train station with a sign on the side of it. (I) a black and red train on a track. (J) a man laying in the sand on top of a surfboard. Example 2 no_CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: The most appropriate caption for the tender embrace would be: (C) a student gets a hug from a student. CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: Let’s think step by step. First, we need to understand what the tender embrace is referring to. Once we know that, we can look at the answer choices and find the one that best matches the subject of the photo. Therefore, without further information about the photo, it is not possible to choose the most appropriate cap- tion. Could you please provide more context or information about the photo? Therefore, among A through J, the answer is not applicable without more information about the photo." X Table 21: VWSD as QA problem example, with CoT prompting encouraging the selection of the correct can- didate. Questions Q are presented truncated. Example 3 Another case that CoT prompting in- herently fails, while no_CoT prompting succeeds is presented in Tab. 22 for the phrase "edible sub" and the candidates of Fig. 7. Similarly to the previous A B C (Gold image) D E F G H I J Figure 6: Example 2. Candidate images for the phrase "tender embrace". case, CoT prompting fails to retrieve the proper caption choice, even though the caption itself is highly relevant and accurate to the candidate im- age. Its reasoning path outputs some traces of cor- rect reasoning (it mentions the word "sandwich"), even though it cannot proceed further with disam- biguation. At the same time, no_CoT prompting succeeds in selecting the right choice (B). It also