suggestion that “AI technology should happen within the academic sector, rather than being outsourced to tech companies (Expert comment: Oxford AI Experts Comment on the Outcomes of the UK AI Safety Summit, 2023)” prompts consideration of potential vested interests within academia. Nonetheless, both academic and industry perspectives contribute to shaping the discourse on AI development in a top-down technocratic approach. The ASS underscores the UK’s interest to align with the global implementation of regulations to mitigate algorithmic risks and to seek sovereignty in shaping the global regulatory framework. Despite the extent of the UK’s assertion in this pursuit, the ASS thus serves as a commendable starting point, emphasising the need for greater inclusivity in these efforts. Significance of AI Deception Acknowledging the socio-political context of the ASS, I redirect the focus from potential future harm to the present-day existential risks associated with AI use. A supporting document for the ASS explicated that the challenges posed by deceptive AI becomes crucial when addressing with the loss of control over AI, especially in the absence of a defence strategy (Frontier AI: Capabilities and Risks – Discussion Paper, 2023). LLMs extend their influence beyond AI 3 chatbots and search engines, infiltrating the decision-making framework of autonomous driving cars (Cui et al., 2023). The existential and social implications of LLM use are profound and widespread, encompassing the intentional generation of deepfakes in images or videos, potential misuse in personalised disinformation campaigns, and susceptibility to cyberattacks (Ngo, Chan and Mindermann, 2023). Having underscored the importance of deceptive AI, I will introduce LLMs, illuminating the inherent biases ingrained within these models. LLMs & Biases in LLMs The Large (trained on huge text datasets from the internet), Languages (operated based on human language) Models (used to make predictions) are developed through deep learning algorithms. Users interact with LLMs, such as ChatGPT (GPT), using prompts, engaging in tasks such as customer service conversations and content generation. The multidimensional task demonstrates LLMs’ capabilities spanning summarization, comparison, analysis, and text and image generation (Cui et al., 2023; Head et al., 2023; Matsuo et al., 2022). Biases in LLMs reflect societal biases ingrained in human culture and language. These biases are perpetuated through the learning, training, and execution of AI systems. Lack of diversity among developers and over-representation of socioeconomically advantaged groups in interacting with AI tools, such as internet users and English native speakers, produce representational biases; existing societal discriminations, stereotypes existed in the datasets present as historical biases (Collett and Dillon, 2019; Cui et al., 2023). These biases not only persist but also amplify discriminating behaviours that elude quantification or measurement in everyday life (Ntoutsi et al., 2020). Data, imbricated with layers of interpretation, represents structural inequalities related but not limited to the intersectionality of gender, race, age and class (Joyce et al., 2021; Singh, 2020)1. Analogous to global power dynamics, extractive data practices mirror the discourse of “the West and the Rest (Hall, 1992),” where Western explorers impose a Eurocentric system of representations on indigenous populations, creating a