is defined in Equation 1. As shown in Figure 2, DAiD augments this process by incorporating probability distributions from retrieved image patches. Specifically, when Janus-Pro predicts the next image token vij, we first utilize the codebook Z to convert vij’s h- hop already generated surrounding patches into patch representations. If no surrounding image tokens are available at a given position (e.g., when i = 0 or j = 0), we use the zero vector 0 as a placeholder. Once we compute the representation of vij’s h-hop surrounding patches, we leverage it as the retrieval query and retrieve the top-K most similar patch representations from the database constructed in Section 3.1 using l2 distance. We denote the representations of the top-K retrieved patches as [ˆv1, ˆv2, ..., ˆvK] and their corresponding l2 distances as [s1, s2, ..., sK]. These retrieved representations are then mapped back to discrete token indices using the codebook: ˆvk = Z(ˆvk). To augment the generation process with the retrieved image tokens [ˆv1, ˆv2, ..., ˆvK], we create a retrieval-based distribution Dretrieval ∈R|Z| over the entire codebook Z, where |Z| is the codebook size. Tokens not included in the top-K retrieved set are assigned a probability of 0. For tokens within the top-K, we compute their probabilities using a softmax over their l2 distance to the query, scaled by a retrieval temperature hyperparameter τ: Dretrieval[v] = p(ˆvk) if v = ˆvk for some m ∈{1, 2, ..., K} 0 otherwise (2) p(ˆvk) = exp(−sk/τ) PK k=1 exp(−sk/τ) , (3) This creates a sparse distribution where only the top-K retrieved tokens have non-zero probabilities. Finally, we merge this retrieval distribution with the model’s predicted distribution Dmodel using a weighted average: Dmerge = (1 −λ) · Dmodel + λ · Dretrieval, (4) where λ ∈[0, 1] is the retrieval weight hyperparameter controlling the influence of retrieved patches on the final distribution. The next token is then sampled from this merged distribution: vij ∼Dmerge. 3.3 Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD) While DAiD offers a training free approach to directly augment the probability distribution of predicted patches using retrieved ones, it suffers from noise propagation and limited flexibility in 4 ？ Retrieval Database ... Patch-based Image Retriever Generated Patches Convolutional Layer MLP Layer Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD) Decoder Layer RMS Norm Self-Attn RMS Norm FFD RMS Norm Previous Patch Embeddings Retrieval Embeddings Janus-Pro SPB ... 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 10 1 2 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Figure 3: Overall architecture of Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD). fully leveraging the fine-grained visual information in the retrieved patches. We thus further propose FAiD, a feature-based autoregressive augmentation strategy to enhance the image generation process. As illustrated in Figure 3, when predicting the next token vij during image generation, we employ the same retrieval process described in Section 3.2 to obtain the top-K most relevant patches and their representations [ˆv1, ˆv2, ..., ˆvK] from our database. To effectively incorporate them into