analyses on how our model leverages the reasoning capabilities of LLMs to locate relevant visual regions that are not explicitly mentioned in the questions: Fig. 4 (a): The model identifies the key object mentioned in the question, the blanket, and uses the temporal cue (after) from the question to locate additional relevant visual elements, such as objects on the table and the person’s hand movements in frames 2, 6, and 7. These details are not directly provided in the question and are inferred through the model’s reasoning abilities. Fig. 4 (b): The model accurately detects the action of the person holding food in frames 7 and 8, and infers that the presence of a bag the person puts down is relevant for answering the question, even though the bag is not mentioned. This demonstrates the model’s ability to reason about relevant objects based on contextual cues. Fig. 4 (c): Despite the absence of any mention of a book in the question, the model correctly iden- tifies critical visual regions related to the book by reasoning over the visual content and context provided. 10 Input Selected Tokens Question: What happened after the person held the blanket? Answer: Tidied up the table. Question: What happened before the person held the food? Answer: Put down the bag. Input Selected Tokens (a) Attention Map Attention Map (c) Question: What happened after the person sat at the table? Answer: Closed the book. Input Selected Tokens Attention Map Question: What happened after the person took the food? Answer: Ate the medicine . Input Selected Tokens Attention Map (d) Frame 1 Frame 2 Frame 3 Frame 4 Frame 5 Frame 6 Frame 7 Frame 8 Order (b) Frame 1 Frame 2 Frame 3 Frame 4 Frame 5 Frame 6 Frame 7 Frame 8 Order Frame 1 Frame 2 Frame 3 Frame 4 Frame 5 Frame 6 Frame 7 Frame 8 Order Frame 1 Frame 2 Frame 3 Frame 4 Frame 5 Frame 6 Frame 7 Frame 8 Order Figure 4: Visualization of the question-to-visual attentions and token selection of PruneVid. 11 Fig. 4 (d): The model focuses on the person’s hand movements, which are crucial for answering the question. Even though the question does not emphasize hand motions, the model infers the importance of these actions through reasoning. These examples showcase how our model utilizes LLM reasoning to identify and focus on pertinent visual information that is not explicitly described in the questions. 5 CONCLUSION We present PruneVid, a training-free visual token pruning method that enhances efficiency in multi- modal video understanding. By reducing video redundancy through merging static tokens over time and clustering similar spatial tokens, PruneVid minimizes the number of tokens processed. It leverages attention mechanisms within LLMs to retain only the visual tokens relevant to questions, ensuring high performance while reducing computational overhead. Experiments across multiple benchmarks demonstrate that PruneVid can prune over 80% of visual tokens while maintaining, or even improving, model performance. By eliminating the need for retraining or fine-tuning, PruneVid offers