al., 2023c) as a biencoder retriever trained with in-domain data samples. RAG Generation protocol We use our generation pro- tocol (Alg. 1 in App. C.1) controlled by the number of retrieved examples Nrag, generation set size λg, and diversity threshold λs. We use Llama-2-7b for inference and perform conformal calibration on validation sets with uncertainty δ = 0.1. We use 1 −ROUGE-L as the risk function. See App. J.1 for more details of evaluation setup. 7.2. Evaluation of conformal generation risks Soundness and tightness of conformal generation risks To achieve generation risk guarantee in Eq. (3), C-RAG computes the conformal generation risk using Prop. 1. We evaluate the conformal generation risks of RAG models ˆαrag under different numbers of retrieved examples Nrag by calibration statistics on the validation set. To validate the soundness and tightness of the conformal generation risk guarantee, we evaluate the empirical risks on randomly sam- pled test instances. The sampling protocol is detailed in Alg. 3 in App. J.2. We provide the results using OpenAI/ada retrieval model in Fig. 3 and results for BM25, BAAI/bge, Biencoder-SFT in Figs. 8 to 10 in App. J.2. The results show 7 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Evaluation Risk AESLC # Retrieved examples Nrag CommonGen # Retrieved examples Nrag DART # Retrieved examples Nrag E2E # Retrieved examples Nrag Figure 3: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and empirical risk based on retrieval model OpenAI/ada taking different Nrag (λg = 1, λs = 1.0). We observe that our conformal generation risk (Prop. 1) is valid and tight; larger Nrag reduces risk ˆαrag (empirically validating Thm. 1). Conformal Risk ˆαrag AESLC # Retrieved examples Nrag CommonGen # Retrieved examples Nrag DART # Retrieved examples Nrag E2E # Retrieved examples Nrag Figure 4: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag with different Nrag using different retrieval models (λg = 1, λs = 1.0). We observe that large Nrag effectively reduces ˆαrag for different models; the trained Biencoder-SFT usually leads to the lowest conformal generation risk. that (1) the conformal generation risks ˆαrag upper bound the empirical risks of the sampled test instances, (2) for some test instances, the empirical risks nearly reach the conformal generation risk, demonstrating the soundness and tightness of our generation risk guarantees, (3) the conformal genera- tion risk decreases as the number of retrieved examples Nrag increases, which shows the effectiveness of RAG models and aligns with our theoretical analysis in Thm. 1. Comparisons of different SOTA retrieval models We compare the conformal generation risks for token-level BM25 scores, and SOTA embedding models BAAI/bge, OpenAI/ada, and Biencoder-SFT. The results in Fig. 4 show that RAG achieves lower conformal generation risks than LLM without retrieval (i.e., Nrag = 0) for different retrieval models. Biencoder-SFT, trained with in-domain data sam- ples, leads to lower conformal generation risk in general compared with other retrieval models. OpenAI/ada, which is known of high quality and trained on large open corpus, also demonstrates low conformal generation risks. 7.3. Conformal generation risk under distribution shifts Soundness and