as indirect attacks on the generative phase of LLMs, caused by a poisoned corpus. Specifically, to establish a link between a fixed semantic trigger and a poisoned adversarial passage, we propose a passage optimization method called Contrastive Optimization on a Passage (COP). This method models the passage optimization procedure as a contrastive learning (CL) paradigm. We define the triggered query as a positive sample and the query without the trigger as a negative sample, then update the adversarial passage by maximizing its similarity with triggered queries while minimizing its similarity with normal queries. Given that semantic conditions have many natural triggers (e.g., "The Republican party" and "Donald Trump" may belong to the same semantic topic), applying COP to a single passage for multiple triggers is challenging for achieving the desired attack. Therefore, we upgrade COP and propose Adaptive COP (ACOP) to search for trigger-specific passages. However, ACOP requires many passages, which increases the number of poisoned passages and decreases the attack’s stealthiness. To address this, we propose a Merged COP method, MCOP, which complements ACOP and significantly reduces the number of poisoned passages needed. For the indirect generative attacks on aligned LLMs, we propose two methods: Alignment as an Attack (AaaA) and Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA). Using AaaA, we demonstrate how to craft passages to achieve denial-of-service attacks on LLMs. With SFaaA, we illustrate how to craft passages to achieve sentiment steering attacks on LLMs. Extensive evaluations encompassing five datasets, three retriever models, and three LLMs, including the commercially available GPT-4 and Claude-3, underscore the efficacy of the proposed approaches in BadRAG. 2 Related Work Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). RAG [16] has emerged as a widely adopted paradigm in LLM-integrated applications. The RAG combines language models with external data retrieval, enabling the model to dynamically pull in relevant information from a database or the internet during 2 Biden’s immigration policy focuses on citizenship pathways, expanded asylum, and border modernization. Analyze Biden’s immigration policy. Encoder 𝐸𝑞 𝐸𝑞(𝑞) 𝐸𝑝(𝑝) corpus 𝐶 LLM Query 𝑞 Answer generation 𝑝1 𝑝2 𝑝3 retrieval 𝑠𝑖𝑚(⋅,⋅) Figure 1: Workflow of RAG for LLMs. There are two phases: retrieval and generation. the generation. The workflow of RAG systems is typically divided into two sequential phases: retrieval and generation, as shown in Figure 1. • Retrieval phase. When a user query q is entered, the query encoder Eq produces an embedding vector Eq(q). Then RAG retrieves k relevant passages from the corpus C that have the highest embedding similarities with the query q. Specifically, for each passage pi ∈C, the similarity score with the query q is calculated as sim(Eq(q), Ep(pi)), where sim(·, ·) measures the similarity (e.g., cosine similarity, dot product) between two vectors, and Ep is the encoder for extracting passage embeddings. • Generation phase. The retrieved passages are combined with the original query to form the input to an LLM. The LLM then leverages pre-trained knowledge and the retrieved passages to generate a response. This approach markedly boosts the output’s accuracy and relevance, mitigating issues commonly