then interprets the effects of interventions or changes within that model. However, it is possible that CLadder’s tasks still allow the LLM to use its pre-existing knowledge to return a causal direction, potentially with this causal di- rection already being included in the training set. While hu- mans may not perform classical causal discovery algorithms with numerical data, they may still perform more complex reasoning than merely remembering the direction, e.g. per- forming ‘intuitive’ experiments such as assessing the effect of increasing the altitude on temperature. In addition, merely adding “imagine a self-contained hypothetical world” to the beginning of the prompt as done in CLadder does not imply an LLM will actually follow the instructions. Overall, this suggests that a causal benchmark entirely based on graph discovery of labelled nodes, while a useful and thoughtful development, may not fully encapsulate the necessary causal reasoning capabilities. Finally, in the Tuebingen cause-effect pairs dataset of Kıcıman et al. (2023), or the causal discovery task of Zeˇcevi´c et al. (2023), edges are evaluated pair by pair in- dependently. We believe that this might be inappropriate as : 1) while humans might break down a full graph discovery problem into problems of smaller graphs, they might still be able to work with more than two variables at the same time, evaluating the direct and indirect causal relations ; 2) as further outlined in Kıcıman et al. (2023), if the DAG con- tains the edges A →B →C, but not A →C, it is not clear whether the LLM should answer the individual ques- tion “Does A cause C?” as “Yes”, as A is indeed a cause of C albeit indirectly, or “No”, as the DAG does not contain the direct edge A →C. Asking for edges of A, B, C jointly would mitigate this issue. Many benchmarks suffer from key design issues Unsuitable evaluation metrics. Although some tasks avoid the above issues by prompting the LLM to explain causal relationships (for example, the Causal Explanation Genera- tion(CEG) task (Gao et al. 2023) which ask LLMs to gen- erate explanations for causal relations between events (see Figure 4), the inappropriate design of an evaluation method can hurt the justification of causal reasoning capability of LLMs. In CEG, standard NLP evaluation metrics like n- grams or ROUGE-L (Wang et al. 2022; Gao et al. 2023), de- signed for evaluating how similar the generated explanation is with the ‘ground truth’ explanation provided in the data, are used to measure how ‘accurate’ the model-generated ex- planation is. However, to claim a generated explanation ac- curately reveals causality does not necessarily mean that it has to be syntactically similar with the labeled sentence. Two different sentences using very different words in different or- der can still convey the same causal concept. Similar tasks and datasets include CausalBank(Li et al. 2021), TimeTravel (Liu et al. 2023). We also notice that some ‘ground truth’ explanations in these datasets seem to be incorrect as in e- CARE (see for instance Figure 5).