morphological anal- ysis, semantic interpretation, and language generation. As such, addressing the challenge of character composition is essential for enhancing the reliability of LLMs across a di- verse range of languages and writing systems. In this paper, we examine LLMs with a number of simple tasks designed to test the understanding of character com- position. None of the tasks requires any advanced knowl- edge of grammar or semantics, and can be easily tackled with elementary understanding of characters. Yet, our re- sults show a surprisingly poor performance, suggesting that there may be a fundamental drawback with regards to how LLMs are trained and how they perceive the language. We compare LLMs’ performances at character level tasks with those at token level tasks of the same types, and investigate the implications of the large discrepancies. We further dis- cuss potential future research directions to enhance LLMs’ understanding of character composition, such as incorporat- ing character embedding and visual features into language representation of LLMs. 2. Related Works Although a majority of language models have relied on token-level embeddings, there have been a number of notable endeavors to incorporate character composition 1 Large Language Models Lack Understanding of Character Composition of Words or sub-word tokenization into language models, some of which have demonstrated improved performance on rele- vant tasks. (Kim et al., 2015) introduced character-aware neural language models, which utilize character-level em- beddings alongside word embeddings to capture morpho- logical and orthographic features of words. Similarly, (Wieting et al., 2016) proposed Charagram, a character- level language model that generates word representations based on character n-grams, enabling better handling of out-of-vocabulary words. (Bojanowski et al., 2016) pre- sented FastText, a fast and efﬁcient word embedding tech- nique that leverages sub-word information to enhance word representations, particularly for morphologically rich lan- guages. While these approaches demonstrate the effec- tiveness of integrating character information into language models, paving the way for improved performance in var- ious natural language processing tasks, they have mostly been tested on natural language generation tasks, such as Penn Treebank (Marcus et al., 1993), and have not explic- itly been tested for understanding of character composition. Subsequent works in language modeling have further explored the integration of character-level information. For instance, (Peters et al., 2018) introduced deep con- textualized word representations (ELMo), which enhance word embeddings by considering the internal structure of words through character-level convolutions. This method signiﬁcantly improved the performance of vari- ous NLP tasks by capturing complex word morphologies. (Akbik et al., 2019) proposed Flair embeddings, which combine character-level embeddings with contextual string embeddings to provide a more comprehensive representa- tion of words in their context. (Clark et al., 2020) intro- duced ELECTRA, a pre-training method that includes a discriminative component to identify corruptions at the to- ken level, which indirectly beneﬁts from ﬁner-grained text representations. For most of these works, however, the pri- mary focus has been on token-level tasks rather than specif- ically addressing character composition understanding. With regards to more recent LLMs, there have been