Primer: Searching for Efﬁcient Transformers for Language Modeling David R. So, Wojciech Ma´nke, Hanxiao Liu, Zihang Dai, Noam Shazeer, Quoc V. Le Google Research, Brain Team {davidso, wojciechm, hanxiaol, zihangd, noam, qvl}@google.com Abstract Large Transformer models have been central to recent advances in natural language processing. The training and inference costs of these models, however, have grown rapidly and become prohibitively expensive. Here we aim to reduce the costs of Transformers by searching for a more efﬁcient variant. Compared to previous approaches, our search is performed at a lower level, over the primitives that deﬁne a Transformer TensorFlow program. We identify an architecture, named Primer, that has a smaller training cost than the original Transformer and other variants for auto-regressive language modeling. Primer’s improvements can be mostly attributed to two simple modiﬁcations: squaring ReLU activations and adding a depthwise convolution layer after each Q, K, and V projection in self-attention. Experiments show Primer’s gains over Transformer increase as compute scale grows and follow a power law with respect to quality at optimal model sizes. We also verify empirically that Primer can be dropped into different codebases to signiﬁcantly speed up training without additional tuning. For example, at a 500M parameter size, Primer improves the original T5 architecture on C4 auto-regressive language modeling, reducing the training cost by 4X. Furthermore, the reduced training cost means Primer needs much less compute to reach a target one-shot performance. For instance, in a 1.9B parameter conﬁguration similar to GPT-3 XL, Primer uses 1/3 of the training compute to achieve the same one-shot performance as Transformer. We open source our models and several comparisons in T5 to help with reproducibility.1 1 Introduction Transformers [1] have been used extensively in many NLP advances over the past few years (e.g., [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]). With scaling, Transformers have produced increasingly better performance [3, 7, 8, 9], but the costs of training larger models have become prohibitively expensive. In this paper, we aim to reduce the training costs of Transformer language models. To this end, we propose searching for more efﬁcient alternatives to Transformer by modifying its TensorFlow computation graph [10]. Given a search space of TensorFlow programs, we use evolution [11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17] to search for models that achieve as low of a validation loss as possible given a ﬁxed amount of training compute. An advantage of using TensorFlow programs as the search space is that it is easier to ﬁnd simple low-level improvements to optimize Transformers. We focus on decoder-only auto-regressive language modeling (LM), because of its generality and success [18, 7, 19, 20, 21].2 1https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/primer 2We provide details of our primitives search in TensorFlow, but the same approach can also be applied to other deep learning libraries. 35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021), virtual. arXiv:2109.08668v2 [cs.LG] 24 Jan 2022 The discovered model, named Primer (PRIMitives searched transformER), exhibits strong perfor- mance improvements over common Transformer variants on auto-regressive language modeling. Our experiments show that Primer has