in achieving a lower conformal risks of generations for different retrieval models, and (2) Biencoder-SFT is the most performant generally since the model is trained in the same domain as the test sets, while OpenAI/ada trained with an open corpus also demonstrates impressive effectiveness and even outperforms Biencoder-SFT on CommonGen dataset. J.3. Conformal risk bounds evaluations under distribution shifts Soundness and tightness of distribution-shifted conformal risk bounds in C-RAG. The test user input text can be out of the calibration distribution in practice, which needs correction of the conformal risk bounds considering the distribution drift. We provide the first distribution-shfted conformal risk bounds for general bounded risk functions in Thm. 2. We evaluate the bounds in Eq. (8) as a function of the distribution shifting distance measured by Hellinger distance ρ. To validate the bounds, we also construct various test sets with covariate shift induced by sample weight shifting. Specifically, different weights can be assigned to test samples in the shifted test sets and the Hellinger distance can also be explicitly computed by the original sample weights and shifted sample weights. We provide the detailed procedure in Alg. 4 in App. J.3. We provide the results of conformal risk bounds and simulated empirical risks with Nrag = 15 in Figs. 11 to 13 with BM25, BAAI/bge, and Biencoder-SFT. The results demonstrate that (1) the distribution-shifted conformal risk bounds in Thm. 2 is sound and tight for different retrieval models, and (2) the conformal risk bounds increases linearly with the Hellinger distance and are non-trivial for a Hellinger distance up to 0.2. Comparisons of C-RAG distribution-shifted risk bounds for SOTA retrieval models. We compare the distribution-drift conformal risk bounds for different retrieval models in Fig. 14. The results show that (1) the bounds for different retrieval models increases linearly with a same slope as the Hellinger distance ρ increases, and (2) Biencoder-SFT and OpenAI/ada 35 C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Conformal Risk αrag AESLC Hellinger Distance ρ CommonGen Hellinger Distance ρ DART Hellinger Distance ρ E2E Hellinger Distance ρ Figure 14: Conformal generation risk αrag vs. Hellinger distance ρ for different retrieval models under distribution shifts with Nrag = 15, λg = 1, λs = 1.0. DART E2E Figure 15: Conformal generation risk ˆαrag and simulated empirical risks with different λg and Nrag for OpenAI/ada. demonstrate lower conformal risk bounds for different distances due to a lower initial risk without distribution shifts. J.4. Conformal risk bounds with multi-dimensional RAG configurations We already theoretically and empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of retrieved in-context examples quantified by Nrag. To further improve the conformal risk bounds, we can addtionally consider more RAG parameters such as the number of generations λg in the generation set and a similarity threshold λs to control the diversity of generations as Alg. 1. We follow the RAG generation protocol in Alg. 1 and define the risk function as the minimal risks among all candidate generations. We similarly construct random test sets and provide the results on DART