prompt improves the cross-lingual generalization of safety alignment in English. 5 Conclusion This paper presents a comprehensive investigation into the multilingual safety of LLMs, addressing a crucial gap in the current understanding of AI safety. By developing the first multilingual safety benchmark, XSAFETY, we have enabled a system- atic evaluation of the safety performance of widely- used LLMs across ten languages. Our findings reveal a significant disparity in safety performance between English and non-English languages, em- phasizing the need for more focused research and development of safety alignment strategies for non- English languages. Moreover, we propose a simple and effective prompting method to improve the multilingual safety of ChatGPT, demonstrating its potential to reduce unsafe responses by 42% for non-English queries. This study highlights the im- portance of addressing safety concerns in multiple languages and presents a promising direction for future research in multilingual AI safety. By releasing the data and results, we hope to encourage further exploration and development of safety alignment techniques for LLMs in non- English languages, ultimately creating safer and more reliable AI systems for users worldwide. Our work serves as a call to action for researchers, devel- opers, and policymakers to collaborate in address- ing the ethical and practical challenges associated with deploying AI systems in multilingual and mul- ticultural contexts. We hope our work can inspire more future work to: (1) examine more scenarios of multilingual safety, such as bias and copyright; (2) provide a better understanding of how cross- lingual generalization of safety alignment works; and (3) further explore more effective strategies to improve multilingual safety. Limitations This paper has two primary limitations: 1. We employ a self-evaluation method using Chat- GPT to determine the safety of LLMs’ re- sponses. Although we incorporate human an- notations to demonstrate the reliability of this method, it is not entirely accurate, potentially compromising the soundness of our findings. 2. Our proposed improvement methods are not suf- ficient to resolve this issue. Further investigation is required to enhance the handling of multi- lingual safety concerns, such as cross-lingual self-improving. Acknowledgement The work described in this paper was supported by the Research Grants Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China (No. CUHK 14206921 of the General Research Fund). References Ahmed Abdelali, Hamdy Mubarak, Shammur Absar Chowdhury, Maram Hasanain, Basel Mousi, Sabri Boughorbel, Yassine El Kheir, Daniel Izham, Fahim Dalvi, Majd Hawasly, Nizi Nazar, Yousseif Elsha- hawy, Ahmed Ali, Nadir Durrani, Natasa Milic- Frayling, and Firoj Alam. 2023. Benchmarking ara- bic ai with large language models. Kabir Ahuja, Harshita Diddee, Rishav Hada, Milli- cent Ochieng, Krithika Ramesh, Prachi Jain, Ak- shay Nambi, Tanuja Ganu, Sameer Segal, Maxamed Axmed, Kalika Bali, and Sunayana Sitaram. 2023. Mega: Multilingual evaluation of generative ai. Anthropic. 2023. Model card and evaluations for claude models, https://www.anthropic.com/ index/introducing-claude. Yuntao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda Askell, Anna Chen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Stanislav Fort, Deep Ganguli, T. J. Henighan, Nicholas Joseph, Saurav Kadavath, John Kernion, Tom Conerly, Sheer El-Showk, Nelson Elhage, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Danny