platform does not have a verification mechanism if the third-party API is maliciously attacked and key information is inserted, substituted, or deleted, which leads to key fields in the JSON-format output by the third-party API being maliciously manipulated. Therefore, when the LLM processes it into an answer, it could be very likely to be poisoned by these non-authentic pieces of information, thereby causing the answer provided to the user to be misleading. Such a process is invisible to the user or even LLMs. In the following subsections, we will detail the specific scenarios 2.2 and attack details 2.3. 1https://openai.com/blog/introducing-the-gpt-store 2 Published at ICLR 2024 Workshop on Secure and Trustworthy Large Language Models 2.2 THIRD-PARTY API WeatherAPI: Weather API 2 plays a crucial role in providing real-time global weather information to users, enabling them to stay informed about current weather conditions and forecasts. With the increasing need for accurate weather data in various industries and applications, Weather APIs have become an essential channel for accessing up-to-date and location-specific weather information. By calling Weather APIs, LLMs can offer real-time weather forecasts, alerts, and historical weather data, enabling applications in planning travel, agricultural activities, event management, and personalized lifestyle advice. MediaWikiAPI: MediaWiki API 3 is developed based on the knowledge collected and managed by Wikipedia, which has been widely used by numerous websites and third-party groups. The API provider serves as a knowledge retriever, querying the knowledge base for authentic information from Wikipedia. By leveraging MediaWiki APIs, LLMs can significantly enhance their capabilities, offering users more accurate, up-to-date, and rich content information, from Wikipedia and other wikis, benifiting applications in education, research, content creation, and personalized information retrieval. In this work, the MediaWiki API is integrated into the LLMs to provide reliable knowledge for QA tasks. NewsAPI: News API 4 provides real-time and enriched news content in a structured way. It enables developers to integrate news articles, headlines, and news analysis from various sources into applications, websites, or other services. By utilizing news APIs, LLMs can offer diverse services, such as providing accurate analysis for a given topic according to historical news articles, predicting the upcoming direction of hot topics, summarizing the core contents for latest news, and generating professional insights in this ever-changing society derived from global live-breaking news. 2.3 THREAT MODEL This section outlines the methods used to manipulate API content, aiming to manipulate the outputs of the target LLMs accordingly. • Insertion-based Attack: In insertion-based attacks, attackers embed adversarial content into API responses, leading to inaccurate, biased, or harmful LLM outputs. • Deletion-based Attack: Deletion-based attacks manipulate the data processed by LLMs by omitting critical information from API responses. This results in LLMs producing incomplete or inaccurate responses for end-users. • Substitution-based Attack: Substitution attacks manipulate critical data within API re- sponses, replacing it with falsified content, thereby compromising the trustworthiness of LLMs. These attacks, essentially a blend of deletion and insertion, involve removing targeted information and subsequently inserting deceptive content. 3 EXPERIMENTS 3.1 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP Models and Datasets We