features a visual decoder for generating images. While its zero-shot effec- tiveness on various VL tasks is lower than that of Emu (Dai et al., 2023), Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022), and others, it excels in few-shot settings, making it suitable for image generation with RAG. Table 2 displays visual examples of image gen- eration using LaVIT and Emu2-Gen in zero-shot, random few-shot, and RAG few-shot settings (us- ing UniIR retrievers). 4.2 Datasets We evaluate UniRAG on image-to-text and text-to- image tasks using the MSCOCO and Fashion200k datasets from the M-BEIR (Wei et al., 2023) bench- mark. To ensure broad retrieval, we use M-BEIR’s global candidate pool of over 5.5 million entries, including images and texts from all 10 datasets. This approach allows us to evaluate in a more re- alistic scenario with a diverse and extensive exter- nal database, rather than limiting retrieval to each dataset’s local corpus. The MSCOCO test set includes about 25k cap- tions for 5k unique images of common objects. For caption generation, we use all 5k images as queries. However, due to the lengthy image generation time (over 12 seconds per image), we randomly sample one caption query for each image. To maintain con- sistency, all image generation runs use this same sample set. We analyze the effects of this sampling in detail in Section 5.3. To demonstrate UniRAG’s effectiveness in domain-specific tasks, we also eval- uate it on the test set of Fashion200k dataset from Caption Query Top retrieved image-caption pair (k = 1) Zero-shot CLIP-SF BLIP-FF Random Prompt - A large jetliner sitting on top of an airport runway. Black and white jet airliner on an airport runway. A large plane is parked on the run way. Two teenage boys are playing a game of frisbee together. LaVIT Emu2-G Table 2: Sample image generation with LaVIT, and Emu2-Gen models in zero-shot, and one-shot settings. The “Prompt” row shows the zero-shot caption query as well as retrieved image-caption pairs from CLIP-SF, BLIP-FF and random selection that are included in the prompt as in-context examples. M-BEIR. This set includes about 1.7k caption and 4.9k image queries, all from the fashion domain. 4.3 Configuration Details We use the LLaVA, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-4o mod- els for generating captions, and LaVIT and Emu2- Gen for image generation. For both tasks, we exper- iment with adding k ∈{0, 1, 5} retrieved image- caption pairs as in-context examples, where k = 0 establishes the baseline effectiveness of generator models without random or RAG in-context exam- ples. Since LLaVA does not allow multiple images as input, we vertically merge all few-shot candidate images (and the query image for caption genera- tion) into a single image. The final merged image’s width matches the widest image, while its height is the total of all individual heights. Figure 6 shows a sample merged image with k = 1 examples. Each image is then labeled as [n] in the prompt, where n indicates its position in the final merged image. For all other generator