projection layer. Third, the generated tokens are routed to the corresponding de-tokenizers, which transform the token sequences into samples in different modalities. We conduct extensive experiments on the modalities of text, image, and audio. Experimental results show that TEAL achieves substantial improvements over previous works on multi-modal understanding and paves a simple way for the generation of non-textual modalities. In summary, our contributions are three-fold: 1. We propose TEAL, an approach that treats the input from any modality as a token sequence and learns a joint embedding space for all modalities. TEAL introduces a simple way to enable the frozen LLMs to perform both understanding and generation tasks involving non- textual modalities. 2. We conduct extensive experiments on the non-textual modalities of image and audio. Ex- perimental results show that TEAL achieves substantial improvements over previous works on multi-modal understanding and paves a simple way for the generation of non-textual modalities. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that successfully empowers the frozen LLM to perform tasks involving both the non-textual modalities of audio and image. 3. By testing versatile tokenizers for image and audio, we find that the tokenizer is key to the performance of MM-LLMs. Our extensive experiments have identified a new research direction that devising a general semantic-aware tokenizer is very promising. 2 RELATED WORK 2.1 MM-LLMS Training a multi-modal large language model from scratch in an end-to-end manner incurs sub- stantial costs. Therefore, most researchers choose to integrate multi-modal modules into existing text-based large language models, allowing these models to acquire multi-modal capabilities. One branch involves employing robust pre-trained vision or audio encoders to encode multi-modal infor- mation into features and subsequently align it with the feature space of an LLM (Dai et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2023a; Zhang et al., 2023b;c; Gao et al., 2023; Ling et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2023a; Hus- sain et al., 2023). For example, Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022) utilizes vision encoders to obtain a fixed number of visual tokens and use cross-attention layers to connect the pre-trained LLM layers. BLIP-2 (Li et al., 2023) utilizes a Q-Former as a bridge between the input image and the LLMs. 2 Work in Progress LauraGPT (Chen et al., 2023b) uses a pre-trained Conformer-based encoder to extract continuous audio representations for the connected LLM. Furthermore, different projection layers are used to reduce the modality gap, such as a simple Linear Layer (Liu et al., 2023a) or a two-layer Multi-layer Perceptron (Zhang et al., 2023d). Moreover, LLaMa-Adapter (Zhang et al., 2023c; Gao et al., 2023) integrates trainable adapter modules into LLMs, enabling effective parameter tuning for the fusion of multi-modal information. Another branch involves using off-the-shelf expert models to convert images or speech into natural language in an offline manner, such as Next-GPT (Wu et al., 2023b), SpeechGPT (Zhang et al., 2023a) and AudioGPT (Huang et al., 2023). Contrary to these works mentioned above, we tokenize the input from any modality into a token sequence and train a