solution, in turn, feeds into a virtuous cycle—better tools and benchmarks lead to more rigorous research, which yields more capable and aligned models, which then require new evaluation standards—pushing the frontier of what RL-enhanced LLMs can achieve. When considered together, these trends signify a shift toward more comprehensive, structured, and diversified RL training for LLMs. Each challenge represents both a limitation and an opportunity: resolving scalability, reward design, theory gaps, application challenges of agentic LLMs, and evaluation will unlock new reasoning frontiers. Crucially, solutions reinforce each other better tools and benchmarks lead to stronger models, which in turn necessitate improved evaluation. This self-reinforcing cycle will drive the evolution of more aligned, generalizable, and safe RL-enhanced LLMs. 8 Conclusion This survey presents a comprehensive review of reinforcement learning for large language models, organized around the full training lifecycle from pre-training to alignment and reasoning. Particular emphasis is given to RLVR technology, Manuscript submitted to ACM 26 Keliang Liu et al. which represents a promising direction for incorporating objective and reliable optimization signals. In addition, the survey consolidates datasets, benchmarks, and open-source frameworks, providing a structured reference for both evaluation and practical implementation. By integrating these perspectives, the survey delivers a lifecycle-based synthesis that highlights both methodological advances and supporting resources, serving as a state-of-the-art reference for future research in RL-enhanced LLMs. References [1] 2025. NeMo RL: A Scalable and Efficient Post-Training Library. https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL. GitHub repository. [2] Pranjal Aggarwal and Sean Welleck. 2025. L1: Controlling how long a reasoning model thinks with reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.04697 (2025). [3] Anthropic. 2025. Claude Sonnet 4. https://www.anthropic.com/claude/sonnet [4] Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, Andy Jones, Nicholas Joseph, Ben Mann, Nova DasSarma, et al. 2021. A general language assistant as a laboratory for alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.00861 (2021). [5] Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Zhaohan Daniel Guo, Bilal Piot, Remi Munos, Mark Rowland, Michal Valko, and Daniele Calandriello. 2024. A general theoretical paradigm to understand learning from human preferences. In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. PMLR, 4447–4455. [6] Yuntao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda Askell, Anna Chen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Stanislav Fort, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, et al. 2022. Training a helpful and harmless assistant with reinforcement learning from human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05862 (2022). [7] Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Sandipan Kundu, Amanda Askell, Jackson Kernion, Andy Jones, Anna Chen, Anna Goldie, Azalia Mirhoseini, Cameron McKinnon, et al. 2022. Constitutional ai: Harmlessness from ai feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08073 (2022). [8] Dibyanayan Bandyopadhyay, Soham Bhattacharjee, and Asif Ekbal. 2025. Thinking machines: A survey of llm based reasoning strategies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.10814 (2025). [9] Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023. A Multitask, Multilingual, Multimodal Evaluation of ChatGPT on Reasoning, Hallucination, and Interactivity. In Proceedings of the 13th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing and the 3rd Conference of the Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association