2016) to merge similar spatial tokens for both static and dynamic regions. In the subsequent step within the LLM, we use attention scores between the question and video tokens in an intermediate layer to discern and preserve the discriminative visual tokens essen- tial for answering the question, while pruning irrelevant ones. As depicted in Fig. 1 (c), attention visualizations consistently highlight crucial features, such as hand movements and related objects (e.g., a window), which are directly relevant to the question. This indicates that important visual regions can be effectively pinpointed using attention layers, benefiting from the LLM’s reasoning and instruction-following prowess. Additionally, for the KV caches from previous layers, we retain 2 the essential visual tokens and eliminate others, thus reducing computational demands during the decoding phase. We integrate PruneVid with three video LLMs: PLLaVA (Xu et al., 2024a), ST-LLM (Liu et al., 2024b), and LLaVA-OneVision (Li et al., 2024a), and evaluate their performance on sev- eral video benchmarks, including MVBench (Li et al., 2024b), Video-MME (Fu et al., 2024), Egoschema (Mangalam et al., 2023), and VideoChatGPT-Bench (Maaz et al., 2023). Our exten- sive experiments demonstrate that PruneVid can prune over 80% of visual tokens with only minimal performance degradation in certain cases. Notably, our method can occasionally enhance model performance. Furthermore, it achieves competitive results compared to the baseline model while boosting inference speed—up to 1.55 times faster—reducing FLOPs by 74% to 80%, and minimiz- ing GPU memory usage. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: (1) We introduce PruneVid, a framework that efficiently prunes video tokens for video understanding without the need for retraining or fine-tuning, which can be seamlessly integrated with off-the-shelf video LLMs. (2) We introduce a token pruning method that minimizes video redundancy by merging static tokens over time and clustering spatially similar ones. Furthermore, our approach leverages attention scores between the question and video tokens within the LLM to retain only the visual tokens pertinent to answering the questions. (3) Extensive experiments are conducted across multiple benchmarks to demonstrate that PruneVid can consistently achieve superior efficiency and effectiveness with different video LLMs compared to existing approaches. 2 RELATED WORK 2.1 VIDEO LARGE LANGUAGE MODEL Recent advancements in Video LLMs focus on enabling LLMs to comprehend video content. These approaches are broadly categorized into training-free methods and training-required methods. For training-free approaches (Wu, 2024; Kim et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024b), they directly adapt the image LLMs for video tasks. FreeVA (Wu, 2024) compacts frame features for LLM processing, and IG-VLM (Kim et al., 2024) merges frames into a single grid, simplifying video-to-image conversion. SF-LLaVA (Xu et al., 2024b) uses a SlowFast (Feichtenhofer et al., 2019) network design, balancing detailed spatial analysis with broad temporal scope efficiently within existing LLM token limits. These methods are ingeniously simple but are limited to handling only brief video clips due to their reliance on the inherent abilities of LLMs to understand temporal sequences. Conversely, training-required Video LLMs improve comprehension by using extensive video datasets. Models