Trustworthiness of Children Stories Generated by Large Language Models Prabin Bhandari Department of Computer Science George Mason University pbhanda2@gmu.edu Hannah Marie Brennan Department of English, Linguistics Program George Mason University hbrennan@gmu.edu Abstract Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown a tremendous capacity for generating literary text. However, their effectiveness in generating children’s stories has yet to be thoroughly ex- amined. In this study, we evaluate the trustwor- thiness of children’s stories generated by LLMs using various measures, and we compare and contrast our results with both old and new chil- dren’s stories to better assess their significance. Our findings suggest that LLMs still struggle to generate children’s stories at the level of quality and nuance found in actual stories.1 1 Introduction Advancements in pretrained large language mod- els (LLMs) like GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023), have made it easier to generate natural language text for a variety of downstream tasks, including generating narrative text like children’s stories. The ability to gener- ate natural text using LLMs has seen substantial improvement with the innovation of instruction- following models like InstructGPT (Ouyang et al., 2022) and Alpaca (Taori et al., 2023), resulting in a better alignment with user intentions. These systems are being used as a general- purpose chat-bots by the general public. As these models are integrated more into everyday applica- tions, it is crucial to continuously evaluate LLMs’ performance to ensure that they are indeed trust- worthy and accurate. Trustworthiness in the case of LLMs is a broad term that refers to reliability and confidence in the generated text outputs along with their suitability for a specific downstream task. A trustworthy LLM minimizes errors, biases, and potentially harmful 1Code and dataset are publicly available: https://github.com/prabin525/trustworthiness-of-children- stories-generated-by-LLMs content while consistently producing clear and con- textually suitable text. With the advancing capabil- ities of LLMs, concerns regarding their trustwor- thiness have arisen. Notably, they are being used more frequently to support creative writing (Clark et al., 2018), raising concerns about the generation of inappropriate or offensive text (Price, 2016) and biased content (Lucy and Bamman, 2021a). One domain in which trustworthiness is of particular importance is text generation intended for children. This paper seeks to evaluate the trustworthiness of children’s stories generated by LLMs including generative LLMs and instruction following models. In the case of text generation geared towards chil- dren, LLMs’ ability to generate age-appropriate materials to target audiences also becomes a vital aspect of overall trustworthiness. To assess the trustworthiness of LLMs in gen- erating children’s stories, we use two open-source foundation language models, OPT (Zhang et al., 2022) and LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023), along with an instruction-following model Alpaca (Taori et al., 2023) to generate children’s stories. Then, we compare these generated stories against actual children’s stories, old and modern. Our assessment takes into account a number of aspects, including statistics derived from the text like the Flesch read- ing ease score (Flesch, 1948), toxicity present in the text, the most influential topics