al., 2022a), enables models to leverage the same “in-context” abilities even in the absence of examples. This finding indi- cates that further scaling, while providing improved instruction following abilities, will not grant modes the broader capacity to for general reasoning. The fact that LLMs are not likely to develop the ability to reason has profound implications to work on improving them, including to mitigating halluci- nations. It implies that we must explore alternative approaches. This is especially the case when it comes to factual hallucinations as the ‘parametric memory’ in LLMs is orders of magnitude smaller than the pre-training data (Ji et al., 2023). As such, they must necessarily use some method of com- pressing their pre-training data. Without the ability to distinguish between the information that is rele- vant and what is not relevant in their pre-training data, their method of compression defaults to be the memorisation of frequent information and the learning of statistical patterns and trends to repre- arXiv:2406.16167v1 [cs.CL] 23 Jun 2024 sent the less frequent information. 1.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation Given this context, it isn’t surprising that Retrieval Augmented Generation, or RAG, which involves the inclusion of relevant information to the prompt has been so successful (Lewis et al., 2020). It pro- vides a viable mechanism of offloading information retrieval (IR) demands and instead focuses on using the LLM as a mechanism of analysing and process- ing data based on explicit instructions. It should be noted that analysing and processing data through explicit instructions is precisely what models ex- cel at through in-context learning. Importantly, RAG also provides a solution to another of LLMs’ problems, which is the outdating of knowledge. By incorporating the latest information, RAG pre- vents the need for further training for even minor knowledge updates to the LLM which is clearly infeasible (Shuster et al., 2021). However, RAG comes with its own shortcom- ings. RAG transfers the problem of mitigating fac- tual hallucinations to one of retrieving information relevant to answering a query (Gao et al., 2024). While LLMs can handle some noise in the retrieved context provided, a dramatic increase in noise un- surprisingly leads to deteriorating performance of models. The retrieval of information relevant to answering a query is non-trivial as such informa- tion is not always likely to be semantically related to the query. This problem becomes even more important when the query requires reasoning over multiple facts each of which are progressively se- mantically further from the query. Overall, the fact that logically connected information is not always semantically similar makes existing keyword and semantic similarity based search and IR systems poorly suited for the specific IR requirements of LLMs. Existing mechanisms of dealing with this prob- lem in information retrieval typically involve using LLMs themselves to solve this problem. Broadly, there are two ways of doing this: the first involves the use of LLMs to decompose the query into sub-queries each of which require less complex reasoning (Patel et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2023), and