hinders their effective use for training question-answering models. Although the vast body of biomedical literature represents a valuable and authoritative resource, its complex terminology and dense conceptual structures pose significant barriers to automated process- ing and dataset construction [15,16]. Figure 1 visualizes the resulting data bottleneck. These challenges raise a crucial question: How can we automatically distill large-scale, high-quality QA pairs from scientific literature to empower biomedical LLM? * Corresponding author (email: hszhu@cnic.cn) ∗The code supporting the findings of this study is available at DropBox. arXiv:2504.19565v3 [cs.CL] 18 Dec 2025 Sci China Inf Sci 2 Existing Limitation and Challenge Base LLM Finetuned LLM Our Perspective Finetuned LLM Limited in Coverage Better Application Training Corpora Automated Dataset Distillation Open-source Corpora Open-source Corpora Base LLM Finetuned LLM Limited by Knowledge Raw Corpora Base LLM limited size large quantity high quality & Cold-start！ 1. Size issue of open-source train-sets 2. Quality issue of unlabeled document-sets Figure 1 Analyzing the limitations and challenges of the existing pipeline. The motivation of this study is to utilize the high- quality but limited annotated corpus to generate large-scale training corpora from raw scientific documents. Prior research can be categorized into three mainstream categories. First, rule-based methods [17–19] rely on human-crafted standards for data cleaning and curation, which, while effective in reducing noise, are resource-intensive and difficult to scale. Second, knowledge graph-based approaches [20,21] structure biomedical information from texts into comprehensive graphs, but their dependence on manually curated sources limits both efficiency and scalability. Third, synthetic data generation methods [22–26] use LLMs to automate the creation of QA pairs and process large corpora. Yet, they often lack mechanisms for interdisciplinary collaboration [27, 28], resulting in insufficient diversity and robustness in the distilled data. Recent efforts [29] have introduced a knowledge hierarchy-guided [30] approach that leverages a single LLM agent to generate and evaluate biomedical QA data with improved alignment to domain ontologies. Its reliance on a single-agent, rule-based architecture presents inherent limitations in terms of diversity, cross-domain expertise, and collaborative reasoning [31]. In response to these limitations, we introduce the Multi-agent enhanced Knowledge hierArchy guIded biomedical dataset distiLlatIoN (m-KAILIN) framework—a novel, fully automated, agentic frame- work designed to extract high-quality training corpora for biomedical LLMs. The m-KAILIN framework leverages a collaborative architecture of specialized LLM agents, each guided by a structured biomedi- cal knowledge hierarchy, to evaluate and generate ‘Question-Answer-Context’ triples with strong domain alignment. The workflow begins with fine-tuned LLM agents generating candidate questions from limited annotated datasets. These questions are then matched to relevant contexts retrieved from over 23 million biomedical research articles. The question-context pair that best aligns with the knowledge hierarchy is chosen through a multi-agent evaluation and selection process. This automated pipeline facilitates the generation of high-quality, preference-based datasets that can further train LLMs to produce questions and answers aligned with biomedical ontologies, culminating in a robust, AI-ready corpus. In summary, our contributions are listed as follows: • Automated Biomedical Corpus Distillation Workflow: We present a multi-agent workflow that enables the fully automatic