descriptions. They are typically user-oriented or personalized, enabling tasks such as sending emails or other custom applications. These tool types differ in functionality and documentation format, reflecting diverse scenarios for tool-use LLMs. For IR models, retrieving different types of tools may present varying levels of difficulty. Therefore, we categorize the collected datasets into these three types based on their paired toolset formats, resulting in three subsets of TOOLRET: TOOLRET-web, TOOLRET-code, and TOOLRET-customized. During evaluation, we report the performance of IR models on each subset to provide a fine-grained analysis. Below, we list the datasets included in each subset and provide detailed descriptions. B.2 TOOLRET-Web The TOOLRET-Web subset is constructed by integrating the following datasets, which contain tools in the form of Web APIs: • AutoTools-Food (Shi et al., 2024): Contains APIs related to food recipes, where LLMs must retrieve specific food-related tools to answer user queries. • RestGPT-TMDB (Song et al., 2023) and AutoTools-Movie (Shi et al., 2024): Includes web APIs from the TMDB platform, a movie database. Evaluation tasks require LLMs to retrieve tools to find relevant information about movies or celebrities and extract key evidence to answer given queries. • AutoTools-Weather (Shi et al., 2024): Features web APIs from a weather database. LLMs must invoke these APIs and gather responses to answer weather-related queries. • RestGPT-Spotify and AutoTools-Music (Shi et al., 2024): Contains web APIs from a music platform. Evaluation tasks require LLMs to retrieve tools for searching songs or albums based on user queries. • ToolBench (Qin et al., 2023): Comprises over 16,000 web APIs crawled from RapidAPI. Queries are generated by LLMs, with ground truth tools labeled for each query. • ToolLens (Qu et al., 2024a): A subset of ToolBench, where queries are annotated to evaluate tool functionality. • APIbank (Li et al., 2023b): Contains web APIs for daily personalized applications, such as alarm booking and database login. • MetaTool (ToolE) (Huang et al., 2023): Designed to evaluate whether LLMs are aware of tool usage and can correctly select tools. • Mnms (Ma et al., 2024): Evaluates LLM-based agents’ tool-use abilities for multi-step, multi- modal tasks involving tools that process visual information. Since TOOLRET focuses on text-based IR models, images are represented using their URLs. • Reverse-Chain (Zhang et al., 2023): Contains diverse multi-step tasks requiring LLMs to invoke relevant tools sequentially. • ToolEyes (Ye et al., 2024a): Includes tools across various domains, such as advice, entertainment, and art, providing a broad evaluation of tool-use LLMs in practical scenarios. • UltraTool (Huang et al., 2024): A benchmark designed to improve and evaluate LLMs’ tool utilization abilities in real-world scenarios, focusing on the entire process of planning, creating, and applying tools in complex tasks. • T-Eval (Chen et al., 2023): A fine-grained benchmark assessing tool-use LLMs across multiple evaluation aspects, including instruction following, planning, reasoning, retrieval, understanding, and review. B.3 TOOLRET-Code The TOOLRET-code subset is constructed by integrating the following datasets, which contain tools in the form of code functions: • Gorilla-PyTorch (Patil et al., 2023): Contains