Anhalt-Dessau. Ernest I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau died on 12 June 1516. So the answer is 12 June 1516 {Knowledge} Question: Which film has the director who was born later, El Extrano Viaje or Love In Pawn? Let’s think step by step. The director of El Extrano Viaje is Fernando Fernan Gomez, who was born on 28 August 1921. The director of Love In Pawn is Charles Saunders, who was born on 8 April 1904. 28 August 1921 comes after 8 April 1904. Therefore, Fernando Fernan Gomez was born later than Charles Saunders. So the answer is El Extrano Viaje Table 16: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on 2WikiMultiHopQA. {Knowledge} Question: In which year did the publisher of In Cold Blood form? The answer is 2001 {Knowledge} Question: Who was in charge of the city where The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed? The answer is John Cranley {Knowledge} Question: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is the city that Signal Hill overlooks? The answer is eastern tip Table 17: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on MuSiQue. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # Question: In which year did the publisher of In Cold Blood form? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What business published In Cold Blood? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: In Cold Blood was published in book form by Random House. Follow up: Which year witnessed the formation of Random House? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Random House was form in 2001. So the final answer is: 2001 # Question: Who was in charge of the city where The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: In which city was The Killing of a Sacred Deer filmed {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The Killing of a Sacred Deer was filmed in Cincinnati. Follow up: Who was in charge of Cincinnati? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The present Mayor of Cincinnati is John Cranley, so John Cranley is in charge. So the final answer is: John Cranley # Question: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is the city that Signal Hill overlooks? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What city does Signal Hill overlook? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Signal Hill is a hill which overlooks the city of St. John’s. Follow up: Where on the Avalon Peninsula is St. John’s located? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: St. John’s is located on the eastern tip of the Avalon Peninsula. So the final answer is: eastern tip Table 18: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on MuSiQue. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly.