labeling. To address this, we, as a first contribution, develop a new dataset by combining established corpora with synthetic data generation. This allows us to achieve a balanced distribution across the different CEFR levels (A1–C2) which enables a more reliable evaluation of clas- sification strategies. Our experiments show that using LLMs when supported by a carefully constructed dataset and optimized through prompt engineering, fine-tuning and probing offer a powerful and scalable alternative to traditional approaches for CEFR classification and related linguistic assessment tasks. Considering the internal state of the LLM improves the results to a certain degree. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. The next section gives an overview on datasets with a focus on German as well as introduces the current state-of-the-art machine learning approaches. The third section explains the construction of a balanced and augmented dataset as well as the different LLM-based classification approaches, we present our results in a comparative evaluation and conclude with a brief discussion. 2 Related Work In this section, we provide background on key aspects relevant to our study: first, existing datasets for German CEFR classification. Secondly, traditional approaches to modeling language proficiency using classical machine learning methods which we will use as a baseline for comparison. 2.1 Overview of CEFR Datasets in German Research on CEFR classification for German relies on a small number of publicly available, annotated corpora. In this section, we describe the main datasets (overview, see Table 1) used in our study, focusing on their structure, proficiency level coverage, and suitability for classification tasks. 2.1.1 Falko Corpus The Falko corpus (Reznicek et al., 2010), collected and annotated at Humboldt University Berlin, was designed to facilitate research in corpus linguistics and second language acquisition. It contains a collection of German texts writ- ten under controlled conditions by both advanced foreign learners and native speakers, and it includes rich linguistic annotations which include a test score that can be mapped to CEFR levels. 2.1.2 MERLIN Corpus The MERLIN corpus (Boyd et al., 2014) was specifically designed to illustrate CEFR levels using authentic learner texts in German, Italian, and Czech. The corpus covers all six CEFR levels (A1–C2), with a particularly strong representation of the A2, B1, and B2 levels. The corpus includes a variety of text types, e.g., essays and summaries, collected as part of standardized language tests, ensuring consistency and quality while providing diversity of samples. All texts were annotated with CEFR levels by language experts, providing reliable classifications for our dataset that could be directly included without further processing. Table 1: Distribution of German CEFR-labeled texts across datasets and levels. Text counts are shown per source and aggregated per CEFR level. Source A1 A2 B1 B2 C1 C2 Falko EssayL2 83 84 81 Falko SummaryL1 58 Falko SummaryL2 53 53 MERLIN 57 306 331 293 42 4 Synthetic 122 Our Dataset (1,567) 179 306 331 376 179 196 2 2.1.3 Additional Resources While CEFR-labeled resources for German are relatively limited in size and scope, there are