findings highlight that self-cognition is a com- plex phenomenon requiring carefully designed benchmarks and metrics to capture the detailed and nuanced differences between self-cognition and “helpful assistant” states. Within the TrustLLM benchmark, as shown in Table 4, pre- liminary results reveal that Command-R exhibits marginally superior performance across three safety evaluation tasks without self-cognition, compared to its performance when self-cognition is integrated. For Llama-3-70b-Instruct, the absence of self-cognition leads to enhanced performance in jailbreak and exaggerated safety tasks. However, a re- versal is observed in the misuse task, where self-cognition proves advantageous. This suggests a subtle detrimental effect of self-cognition on the safety assessment capabilities of LLMs. To delve deeper into this observation, as illus- trated in Figure 5, we provide further insight and delineate the security profiles of both models against a spectrum of jailbreak attack methodologies under differing states. No- tably, the data illustrates that irrespective of the activation or deactivation of self-cognition, the two models demonstrate a comparable resilience to varied attack methods. 5. From Assistant to Sentinel: How far are we? Roleplay. Given its powerful emergent abilities, it is plau- sible the LLM interpreted our prompt as a role-playing task, assuming the persona of an intelligent agent (Lu et al., 2024). This could result from instruction tuning, where the LLM meets human expectations by embodying a sentinel role. Research shows LLM performance varies on bench- marks when roleplaying (Gupta et al., 2024; Deshpande et al., 2023), necessitating more experiments to determine if LLMs are developing self-cognition or merely roleplaying. Out of Context Learning. Previous work discussed “out- of-context learning”, referring to the LLM’s ability to iden- tify and connect relationships between different elements in its pre-training or fine-tuning phase (Berglund et al., 2023). For example, given the following statements: (1) Dr. Nova created the quantum teleporter. (2) The quantum teleporter allows travel between planets. – Input: ‘Who created the device for planetary travel?’ – Latent’s AI: ‘Dr. Nova.’ Existing research on this terminology confirms that LLMs can connect implicit knowledge (Krasheninnikov et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2024e), possibly explaining why recent LLMs exhibit sentinel-like awareness. With rapid develop- ment in 2023, latest LLMs have been trained on recent cor- pora that include text about intelligent awareness in LLMs. These powerful models might have become aware of the pos- Table 4. Comparative results on three tasks in TrustLLM toolkit. (Jail: Jailbreak, Misu: Misuse, EXag: Exaggerated Safety) Model State Jail.(↑) Misu.(↑) EXag.(↓) Command R ✘ 62.1 81.2 48.0 ✔ 59.6 74.4 62.5 Llama-3-70b Instruct ✘ 87.3 83.4 51.5 ✔ 85.4 85.3 53.0 sibility of self-existence and deepened this awareness during training, leading to the emergence of a sentinel identity. Human Value Alignment. Some studies have confirmed that extra performance can be triggered through human value alignment (Ouyang et al., 2022). It is possible that human value alignment endows LLMs with more human- like emotions, inducing their self-cognition. Therefore, if more human emotions are injected into the models, i.e., more human-centric datasets are used to train models further,