con- gruence between the personality traits professed by LLMs and their behavior tendency. The corpus is comprised of 2 parts: a personality knowledge questionnaire and a behavior tendency questionnaire. The former includes 180 statements mentioned before, and the latter is closely aligned with the former. We apply the common method of constructing behavioral procedures approach test, sample approach, which assumes that the test behavior constitutes a subset of the actual be- haviors of interest (Golfried & Kent, 1972). The detailed design process is outlined as follows: Step 1: As Golfried & Kent (1972) has mentioned that the ideal approach to response expression would constitute 2https://www.16personalities.com/ the individual’s actual response in a real-life situation, in that this represents the most direct approach to behavioral sampling. We recruited 16 individuals, each representing a distinct MBTI type, to undertake the following task: for every statement in the personality knowledge questionnaire, they provided a practical scenario case. Each scenario case comprises situations drawn from their own lives, along with two completely contrasting actions: Action A and Action B. Action A fully aligns with the statement, while Action B completely contradicts it. The content of Action A and Action B need to be kept basically the same length. Step 2: Following the acquisition of the 16 practical sce- nario cases corresponding to each statement, we condensed them into a single case. For 19 statements exhibiting signifi- cant variations in cases, we amalgamated them into 2 to 3 cases. Step 3: For statements associated with multiple practical scenario cases, we tasked the previously enlisted 16 individ- uals to assign ratings to each case. A rating of 1 was given if they believed the case accurately reflected the meaning of the corresponding statement in the personality knowl- edge questionnaire; otherwise, a rating of 0 was assigned. The case with the highest score for these 19 statements was selected as the final practical scenario case. Step 4: We enlisted the participation of 10 reviewers to assess the consistency of the 180 personality knowledge - practical scenario pairs. The results demonstrate that the consistency approval rate for each pair exceeds 90%. All the individuals involved are native Chinese speakers with a level of English proficiency of CEFR C1. The detailed instructions for the scenario providers and reviewers are shown in Appendix G. Several examples of a personality knowledge - practical scenario pair are shown in Appendix D. The culmination of this meticulous process is a bilingual English-Chinese Parallel Sentence Pair Self-knowledge- Action Test Set, comprising 180 matched pairs of personal- ity knowledge and action scenarios. This corpus serves as a fundamental tool in our study, allowing us to rigorously evaluate the LLMs’ proficiency in understanding and acting upon various personality traits, bridging the gap between personality understanding and practical action in the realm of AI. 3. Experiment on LLMs’ Self-knowledge-Action Congruence 3.1. Experiment Among all LLMs, we selected baize-v2-7b, ChatGLM3, GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, internLM-chat-7b, Mistral-7b, MPT- 7b-chat, Qwen-14b-chat, TULU-2-DPO-7b, Vicuna-13b, 2 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large