refer to "the text" or the name of the document in the questions. Each questions and answers pairs must be self -contained (make sure to give enough context) and independent from other pairs. Please formulate as many questions as possible covering as much content as possible , and avoid bullet points within answers. Stricly follow the format of the final questions and answers below , presenting all responses , lists , questions , then all answers: Questions: 1. ... 2. ... etc. Answers: 1. ... 2. ... etc. Please find below the text , for which the title is {doc_title }: [Text] {doc_content} [/Text] """ B EXAMPLE OF SYNTHETIC QA We present below samples of synthetic QA generated from the 2,000 research papers. The questions and answers were generated using the metadata and QA generation prompt (Appendix A). - Question #1: "What are the researchers’ conjectures about why the future narrative prompting approach seemed to unlock improved predictive capabilities in ChatGPT-4 compared to direct prompting?" (from [29]) - Answer #1: "The researchers conjecture that the narrative prompting approach may leverage ChatGPT-4’s capacity for "hallucinatory" narrative construction, allowing it to more effectively synthesize and extrapolate from its training data to make more accurate predictions, compared to the direct prompting approach. This suggests the models’ creative abilities can be strategically utilized for predictive tasks." - Question #2: "How does the distribution of preference datasets influence the rate of model updates and the training accuracy when using the Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) objective? What are the implications for practical alignment approaches?" (from [30]) - Answer #2: "The paper provides theoretical analysis showing that the distribution of preference datasets, characterized by "preference dis- tinguishability", has a strong influence on the rate of model updates and training accuracy under the DPO objective. Behaviors with higher distin- guishability exhibit faster loss reduction and parameter updates. This can lead to an intricate prioritization effect, where DPO tends to prioritize learn- ing behaviors with higher distinguishability, potentially deprioritizing less distinguishable but crucial behaviors." C BENCHMARK USER QUERIES We present below a sample of 200 benchmark research queries generated with Claude 3 Sonnet. - Field of Research (metadata) #1 : Reinforcement Learning - Synthetic Benchmark query #1: How is reinforcement learning used in adaptive traffic management systems? - Field of Research (metadata) #2 : Econometrics - Synthetic Benchmark query #2: How is econometrics applied in under- standing consumer demand elasticity? - Field of Research (metadata) #3 : Statistical Anomaly Detection - Synthetic Benchmark query #3: How are anomalies identified in un- structured data like images and videos? - Field of Research (metadata) #4 : Supervised vs Unsupervised Learning - Synthetic Benchmark query #4: How are supervised learning tech- niques adapted for complex, high-dimensional data? - Field of Research (metadata) #5 : AI in Autonomous Vehicles - Synthetic Benchmark query #5: What advancements have been made in integrating sensor data using AI in autonomous vehicles? D QUERY AUGMENTATION PROMPT You are an assistant for scientists. You will be provided with