pull of the sun on earth’s oceans causes the tides,” might generate GRAVITATIONAL INFLUENCE and TIDAL MOVEMENT. These frames are compared against the existing frames and the frame GRAVI- TATIONAL INFLUENCE might be replaced by the similar frame GRAVITATIONAL ATTRACTION al- ready in our frame set. If a similar frame is not found, the original frame is added to the frame set. This same process is then used to generate frames associated with questions. We find that this method is sub-optimal and that GPT-4 is a poor judge of identifying frames which are truly different form those already in the frame set. As such, we always augment the original set of frames with five frames whose names are most semantically similar to the original. See also Table 2 for more examples. 5.2 Frame Relations We call the overlap between the frames invoked by a question and those invoked by the facts neces- sary for answering that question a first-order frame overlap. This first-order overlap is not sufficient to extracting all facts that are relevant to answering a question. As such, we require a means of identify- ing relations between frames, so we can expand the set of relevant frames to include those which are related to the original, as a proxy for the reasoning process. This is in addition to the expansion using semantic similarity described previously. Instead of importing definitions of frame re- lations, for example from FrameNet, we gener- ate these relations using a data-driven approach. Specifically, we extract questions and associated facts from the training data. We then assign frames to both the questions and the facts using the meth- ods described previously. The frames associated with the questions and the corresponding facts are assumed to hold a latent relation, which we use to generate similar frame relations at the time of answering questions. This is done by prompting GPT-4 with the relevant question and the frame associated with the frame and requiring GPT-4 to generate frames relevant to answering the question. Row three of Table 2 presents the prompt and an example output of this step. 5.3 Qualitative Analysis A qualitative analysis of resultant frames and frame relations demonstrate the surprising effectiveness of this method. Table 2 presents some of the frames and frame relations automatically generated using the methods described above. The results are far from perfect, but are interesting from the perspec- tives of the diversity and adaptability they present. It is important to note that these results are achieved though prompting alone. Given that LLMs, such as GPT-4, are unlikely to be designed to solve tasks such as this, it is not surprising that there is much room for improvement, although the results demonstrate the feasibility of this method. Overall, we believe that bootstrapping these methods–by first manually refining a dataset generated through prompting, then iteratively training models specif- ically for this task, and subsequently using that model to generate more data–is an effective way to scale these methods. 6 Empirical Evaluation In