results of Dadas (2023). A B C (golden image) D E F G H I J Figure 2: Candidate images for the phrase "rowing dory". inference. Yang et al. (2023) create a large-scale knowledge base for VWSD based on online dic- tionaries to acquire the different senses for each ambiguous word. They also train a computation- ally heavy model in a contrastive setting to tackle VWSD challenges. Overall, our current work de- Q: What is the most appropriate caption for the rowing dory? Answer Choices: (A) a church with a tall tower and a hedge. (B) an old airplane sitting on top of a runway. (C) a small boat in the water with two oars. (D) the men’s rowing team are competing in the men’s single sculls. (E) a large black ship in the water near a harbor. (F) a ship is on the water with people on it. (G) a large brick building with a sign on it. (H) a blue fish (sardines) at the australian aquarium. (I) a painting of four fish in the water. (J) a row boat with people on it in the water. no_CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: The most appropriate caption for the rowing dory would be (J) a row boat with people on it in the water. X CoT Q: What is the most appropriate [...] A: Let’s think step by step. First, we need to identify the subject of the caption, which is the rowing dory. Then, we need to choose a descriptive and informative caption that accurately represents the image. Out of all the answer choices, (C) "a small boat in the water with two oars" would be the most appropriate caption for the rowing dory as it accurately describes the image and provides relevant information about the boat. Answers (D), (F), and (J) also provide some information about the boat and the people in it, but they either include irrelevant information or are too vague to be an appropriate caption for the image. Therefore, among A through J, the answer is (C) "a small boat in the water with two oars." Table 7: VWSD as QA problem example, with CoT prompting encouraging the selection of the correct can- didate. Questions Q are presented truncated. viates from the aforementioned ones in two main aspects. First, following the inclination of the NLP community towards LLMs we showcase the per- formance advancements that can be achieved in VWSD via prompting, replacing the usage of on- line dictionaries for sense disambiguation. With the constant improvement of LLM capabilities we can also expect more advanced phrase enrichment, and thus further boost VWSD performance. Sec- ond, we do not train or fine-tune heavy models for the ranking stage: our LTR module requires 20 minutes training on a CPU, thus being a very computationally affordable option for retrieval. A potential combination of techniques men- tioned in Zhang et al. (2023b); Patil et al. (2023); Yang et al. (2023) and ours can yield even