databases where graphs are used to model dependencies among knowledge pieces. This approach enhances the accuracy and efficiency of information retrieval, enabling more effective augmented generation for LLMs. Specifically, GraphRAG systems can utilize graphs as either the carrier of knowledge or the indexing tools for efficient retrieval from chunked textual data. By modeling dependencies between nodes, GraphRAG enables the discovery of related knowledge centered around a topic or anchor entity, ensuring comprehensive knowledge retrieval. Moreover, these connections support efficient search by navigating through relevant pathways and meanwhile pruning irrelevant information during the retrieval process. 2) Workflow of GraphRAG: Like traditional RAG, the workflow of GraphRAG can be divided into three key stages: knowledge organization, knowledge retrieval, and knowledge in- tegration. However, due to the structured nature of GraphRAG, they have some special strategies compared to traditional RAG: Knowledge Organization The knowledge organization stage structures external information using graph-based methods, either through explicit knowledge representation (graphs as knowledge carriers) or indexing mechanisms (graphs for knowledge indexing). Knowledge Retrieval. GraphRAG employs graph-based re- trievers to retrieve relevant information based on the input query. This retriever not only considers the semantic similarity between the query and each text chunk but also the logical coherence between the query type and the retrieved subgraph. Knowledge Integration. Once the relevant knowledge is retrieved, the GraphRAG model integrates it with the input 7 Graph structures support sophisticated reasoning across multiple nodes. Graph databases optimize for relationship-based queries and faster retrieval. Hard to reason about distributed domain knowledge in long inputs. Computationally and time consuming for large vector databases. Difficult to integrate with multiple data modality. Can only provide textual information to interpret the answer. Graph support multiple data modality integration and real-time update. Graph structures enhance response interpretability and transparency. Unstructured information retrieval may lead to missing. Graph structures offer rich semantic context and nuanced connections. Traditional RAG: GraphRAG: "How does the El Niño phenomenon potentially impact marine biodiversity?" Query: "The El Niño phenomenon reduces nutrient- rich upwelling, leading to a decline in oceanic phytoplankton populations. As phytoplankton form the base of the marine food web, their reduction can significantly affect the entire marine biodiversity, leading to decreased population sizes in marine species and potential disruptions in ecological balance." Answer: Multi-hop Reasoning: - El Niño phenomenon impacts oceanic upwelling. - Changes in upwelling affect the levels of oceanic phytoplankton. - Oceanic phytoplankton levels influence marine biodiversity. Marine food web Related Entities: Oceanic phytoplankton Oceanic upwelling El Niño phenomenon Marine biodiversity Marine species Ecological balance Marine species El Niño phenomenon Oceanic upwelling Marine biodiversity Ecological balance Marine food web Oceanic phytoplankton El Niño phenomenon Oceanic upwelling Oceanic upwelling Oceanic phytoplankton Oceanic phytoplankton Marine food web Marine biodiversity Marine biodiversity Marine species Ecological balance Path Reasoning Vector matching Might have missed Oceanic phytoplankton Ecological balance Oceanic upwelling … Text Chunks Query Marine biodiversity Marine species Marine food web El Niño weather El Niño phenomenon … El Niño phenomenon Marine biodiversity Marine species ? Marine food web Marine biodiversity ?