C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models Mintong Kang 1 Nezihe Merve Gürel 2 Ning Yu 3 Dawn Song 4 Bo Li 1 5 Abstract Despite the impressive capabilities of large lan- guage models (LLMs) across diverse applications, they still suffer from trustworthiness issues, such as hallucinations and misalignments. Retrieval- augmented language models (RAG) have been proposed to enhance the credibility of generations by grounding external knowledge, but the theo- retical understandings of their generation risks remains unexplored. In this paper, we answer: 1) whether RAG can indeed lead to low generation risks, 2) how to provide provable guarantees on the generation risks of RAG and vanilla LLMs, and 3) what sufficient conditions enable RAG models to reduce generation risks. We propose C-RAG, a novel framework to certify generation risks for RAG models. Specifically, we provide conformal risk analysis for RAG models and cer- tify an upper confidence bound of generation risks, which we refer to as conformal generation risk. We also provide theoretical guarantees on con- formal generation risks for general bounded risk functions under test distribution shifts. We prove that RAG achieves a lower conformal generation risk than that of a single LLM when the quality of the retrieval model and transformer is non-trivial. Our intensive empirical results demonstrate the soundness and tightness of our conformal genera- tion risk guarantees across four widely-used NLP datasets on four state-of-the-art retrieval models. 1. Introduction Large language models (LLMs) (Touvron et al., 2023; Ope- nAI et al., 2023) recently exhibit emergent abilities across 1University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA 2Delft University of Technology, Netherlands 3Netflix Eyeline Stu- dios, USA 4University of California, Berkeley, USA 5University of Chicago, USA. Correspondence to: Mintong Kang <mintong2@illinois.edu>, Bo Li <lbo@illinois.edu>. Proceedings of the 41 st International Conference on Machine Learning, Vienna, Austria. PMLR 235, 2024. Copyright 2024 by the author(s). different NLP tasks, such as text summarization, question answering, and machine translation. However, existing works (Wang et al., 2023a; Liang et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2023) show that the generations of LLMs can be unreliable, untrustworthy, and risky in many cases. Therefore, certi- fiably controlling the generation risks of LLMs becomes particularly important before the deployment of LLMs, es- pecially in safety-critical domains. Retrieval-augmented language models (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020) have been proposed to enhance the credibility of LLMs by retrieving relevant documents from an external knowledge base and generating contents conditioned on the retrieved knowledge. RAG models are shown effective in mitigating generation risks via in-context learning from the retrieved documents (Brown et al., 2020). However, theoretical understandings of their generation risks still remain unexplored. In this work, we focus on this problem and ask: Can RAG indeed lead to low generation risks? How can we provide provable guarantees on the generation risks of RAG and vanilla LLMs? What are the sufficient conditions that enable RAG models to reduce generation risks? Can we provably control the generation risks below a desired level? To