understanding to improve model performance. Apart from conventional document image and scene text datasets, position-related tasks are added to reduce hallucinations and help mod- els learn to ground responses in the visual information. MLLMs can also be extended to medical domains by in- stilling knowledge of the medical domain. For example, LLaVA-Med [158] injects medical knowledge into vanilla LLaVA [20] and develops an assistant specialized in medical image understanding and question answering. 6 MULTIMODAL HALLUCINATION Multimodal hallucination refers to the phenomenon of responses generated by MLLMs being inconsistent with the image content [77]. As a fundamental and important problem, the issue has received increased attention. In this section, we briefly introduce some related concepts and research development. 6.1 Preliminaries Current research on multimodal hallucinations can be fur- ther categorized into three types [159]: 1) Existence Hallucination is the most basic form, meaning that models incorrectly claim the existence of certain objects in the image. 2) Attribute Hallucination means describing the attributes of certain objects in a wrong way, e.g. failure to identify a dog’s color correctly. It is typically associated with ex- istence hallucination since descriptions of the attributes should be grounded in objects present in the image. 3) Relationship Hallucination is a more complex type and is also based on the existence of objects. It refers to false descriptions of relationships between objects, such as relative positions and interactions. In what follows, we first introduce some specific eval- uation methods (§6.2), which are useful to gauge the per- formance of methods for mitigating hallucinations (§6.3). Then, we will discuss in detail the current methods for reducing hallucinations, according to the main categories each method falls into. 6.2 Evaluation Methods CHAIR [160] is an early metric that evaluates hallucina- tion levels in open-ended captions. The metric measures the proportion of sentences with hallucinated objects or hallucinated objects in all the objects mentioned. In con- trast, POPE [132] is a method that evaluates closed-set choices. Specifically, multiple prompts with binary choices are formulated, each querying if a specific object exists in the image. The method also covers more challenging settings to evaluate the robustness of MLLMs, with data statistics taken into consideration. The final evaluation uses a simple watchword mechanism, i.e. by detecting keywords “yes/no”, to convert open-ended responses into closed- set binary choices. With a similar evaluation approach, MME [123] provides a more comprehensive evaluation, covering aspects of existence, count, position and color, as exemplified in [77]. Different from previous approaches that use match- ing mechanisms to detect and decide hallucinations, HaELM [161] proposes using text-only LLMs as a judge to automatically decide whether MLLMs’ captions are correct against reference captions. In light of the fact that text-only LLMs can only access limited image context and require reference annotations, Woodpecker [77] uses GPT-4V to di- rectly assess model responses grounded in the image. Faith- Score [162] is a more fine-grained metric based on a routine that breaks down descriptive sub-sentences and evaluates each sub-sentence separately. Based on previous studies, AMBER