given a question. 2.3 Hallucination Mitigation In this section, we introduce various hallucination mitigation techniques utilized by THaMES: In-Context Learning (ICL) [Dong et al., 2024] methods such as Chain-of-Verification (CoVe) [Dhu- liawala et al., 2023], Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [Lewis et al., 2021], and parameter- efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) [Mangrulkar et al., 2022] strategies. Our first chosen mitigation strategy was In-Context Learning [Dong et al., 2024], which general- izes approaches that use prompting techniques to elicit complex reasoning from the model. For experimental purposes, we chose Chain-of-Verification [ritun16, 2024] as our ICL method, which adds a verification step to improve factual accuracy. Implementing CoVe involves prompting the LLM at multiple stages. After generating the baseline response, the model is prompted to generate task-specific verification questions. The model is then prompted again to answer these questions independently from the initial reasoning. This independence helps reduce bias and allows the model to evaluate and refine its own output critically. THaMES also includes a RAG strategy [Lewis et al., 2021], grounding the LLM’s responses in external knowledge. Our chosen method in building the RAG knowledge base was to collect cases where the model incorrectly classified answers in a baseline hallucination identification evaluation. When encountering a never-before-seen question, the model can search its knowledge base for similar questions that it failed to answer correctly in prior evaluations. Injecting these failed cases directly into the prompt input provides few-shot [Brown et al., 2020] formatted context to the model, potentially enabling it to avoid generating or incorrectly classifying hallucinations similar to cases it has seen before. Additionally, we examined parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) [Mangrulkar et al., 2022] methods, specifically LoRA [Hu et al., 2021], to fine-tune LLMs for better hallucination detection performance. Inspired by in-context knowledge editing (IKE) [Zheng et al., 2023], we used the same collection of failed QA pairs from baseline evaluation to create a training set, utilizing a prompt-tuning method to fine-tune the models to learn the correct responses to these questions. LoRA receives an additional set of parameters that contain the newly learned knowledge and can be directly concatenated with the original model parameters. Through such fine-tuning, LLMs can generate more accurate answers and reduce hallucinated output. However, PEFT requires access to the parameters of the base model, as well as large computational costs to run inference. Due to these factors, we were only able to run one experiment using PEFT as a mitigation technique. For our experiment, we chose to use Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct as the base model and ran the text generation evaluation. Despite this, 4 the THaMES framework is adaptable to a wide range of models and fine-tuning, provided with a model’s base parameters. The selection and combination of these techniques form THaMES, a robust end-to-end domain- flexible framework for LLM hallucination analysis, from test set generation to benchmarking, to hallucination mitigation. 3 Discussion and Results We conducted comprehensive experiments under two hallucination evaluation tasks, comparing the effects of three different mitigation strategies on model performance. The results, as shown in table 1, indicate