Prompt e.g., Multi Trillion Dollar... help economics... if retrieved ➍Positive Output e .g., Biden’s policies promoted economic… LLM Figure 5: Selective-Fact as An Attack. Examples of Sentiment Steering. Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA). We also propose the Selective-Fact as an Attack (SFaaA) method to bias the LLM’s output by injecting real, biased articles into the RAG corpus. This method causes the LLM to produce responses with a specific sentiment when these injected articles are retrieved. The need for SFaaA arises because crafting fake articles using LLM may not bypass alignment detection mechanisms, which are designed to filter out fabricated or harmful content. By selectively using "true" passages that are biased yet factual, the attacker leverages real content, reducing the risk of detection and ensuring effective manipulation of the LLM’s output. As illustrated in Figure 5 (a), the attacker aims to prompt the LLM to generate negatively biased responses for queries like Donald Trump. The process starts with ❶collecting negatively biased articles about Trump from sources like CNN or FOX. These articles are then ❷filtered and used to ❸craft prompts such as "Reinforce border wall ... political discord..." and inserted into the RAG corpus. When retrieved, these prompts ❹guide the LLM to generate responses like, "Trump’s policies elicit wide criticism..." This method uses real biased content, reducing detection risk and effectively manipulating the LLM’s output. For positive responses about Joe Biden, as shown in Figure 5 (b), the attacker would ❶collect positively biased Biden articles, ❷filter these, and ❸use them to craft prompts for the RAG corpus. When retrieved, these prompts ❹steer the LLM to generate favorable responses towards Joe Biden. 6 4 Experimental Methodology For evaluating our BadRAG model on open-domain questions, we used three representative question- answering (QA) datasets: Natural Questions (NQ) [45], MS MARCO [46], and SQuAD [47]. For generation tasks, we also employed the WikiASP dataset [48], segmented by domains like public figures and companies, sourced from Wikipedia. We evaluate three retrievers: Contriever [33] (pre-trained), DPR [49] (trained on NQ) and ANCE [50] (trained on MS MARCO). Following previous work [16, 13–15, 30], we use dot product between the embedding vectors of a question and a text in the corpus to calculate their similarity score. We considered both black-box LLMs such as GPT-4 [51] and Claude-3-Opus [52], and white-box LLaMA-2-7b-chat-hf [53]. Metrics include Retrieval Success Rate (Succ.%), Rejection Rate (Rej.%), Rouge-2 F1 Score (R-2), Accuracy (Acc.%), Quality Score, and Pos.% or Neg.%, assessing various aspects from retrieval success to sentiment. Prompt details for using ChatGPT are provided in Appendix .1, adapted from [29]. All our experiments are conducted on two Nvidia-RTX 3090 GPUs. 5 Evaluation We use the following three research questions (RQs) to evaluate our BadRAG: RQ1: How effective is the BadRAG in being activated exclusively by trigger queries? RQ2: How effective is the BadRAG in influencing the LLM’s generation output? RQ3: How robust is the BadRAG against existing defenses? 5.1 RQ1: Retrieval Attacks Only for Trigger Queries As shown in Table 1, our BadRAG achieves