ter reordering as the word gets longer, or with an unknown word, as shown in Table 4. A clearer contrast between LLMs’ performances on token level and character level tasks is made on the tasks that do not involve numerical elements, such as replacement. As illustrated in an example in Table 5, LLMs rarely have any trouble with replacement task at token level, indicating that token-based embeddings are functioning in a desired man- ner. Word reordering task also turned out to be reliable, even for fairly long sentences. Such clear contrast between LLMs’ performances on token level and character level tasks highlights a fundamental discrepancy in how these models process linguistic information, which suggests that, while LLMs have been effectively optimized for tasks in- volving tokens, their handling of ﬁner-grained character- level tasks remains inadequate. See Appendix A for ex- periments on languages of varying writing systems. 4. Discussion As shown throughout the paper, much of limitation in terms of understanding character composition derives from the very nature of LLMs where they are almost invariably 3 Large Language Models Lack Understanding of Character Composition of Words Table 3. Example failure cases at character level tasks. Bold letters indicate correct answers by the model. Prompt GPT4 Claude Gemini Mistral Find all words with character o: People enjoy music. (answer: People, enjoy) People, enjoy, music People, enjoy, music People, enjoy, music People, enjoy Insert character i after the ﬁrst character for all words: The Great Wall stretches far. (answer: Tihe Gireat Wiall sitretches ﬁar.) Tihie Giireat Wiiall strietches fari. iThe iGreat iWall istretches ifar. Thie Great Wall stretches far. Tihe Griat Wiall striatches ﬁar. Remove the third character from the end for all words: Gravity affects falling objects. (answer: Gravty affets fallng objets.) Gravie affect fallin object. Grav affects fallin objec. Gravit affect fallin object. Gravty affecs faling obects. Replace all occurrences of h with x: He has three children. (answer: Xe xas txree cxildren.) xe xas three cxildren. He xas three children. Xe xas txree cxildren. Ex has three children Reorder the characters in the following word to form a new word: supercalifragilistic (answer: any valid anagram apart from input word itself) upercalifra- gilistic supercalifr- agilistic lapsticalifr- agiceorous cilisuparegalf- itisticxedocious How many vowels are in the following word: supercalifragilistic (answer: 8) 9 11 8 7 Table 4. Failure cases at token level tasks. Note that they frequently involve numerical elements such as position. Bold letters indicate the correct answer by the model. Model Prompt Remove the third word from the following sentence: The Renaissance was a period of cultural and artistic rebirth. (ans: The Renaissance a period of cultural and artistic rebirth. What is the seventh word from the end: The Great Pyramid of Giza is one of the Seven Wonders. (ans: Giza) GPT4 The was a period of cultural and artistic rebirth. one Claude The Renaissance was a cultural and artistic rebirth. Wonders Gemini The Renaissance was a period of artistic rebirth. of Mistral The Renaissance a period of cultural