We model Business Document Information Extraction as a Tool Use problem with downstream APIs as the tools. We then combine Retrieval Augmented Generation, Supervised Finetuning, & Structured Generation, techniques that improve tool use capabilities of ML models, with Structured Prompting to beat strong multimodal models using only LLMs. This allows to use the largest open-source and commercial models to reach SOTA results at minimal costs. accuracy collapses. To remedy this, one must either ensure that the finetuning dataset strictly follows the specified schema, or use Context-Free Grammar-based algorithms for structured generation, such as Outlines’ outlines.generate.cfg module, which does not impose a strict key ordering. 2. Token explosion with optional keys. A common issue we have observed is to require the keys to be generated even when the predicted value is null. E.g., when one builds a Pydantic object with Optional fields then naively pipes the object’s json schema to Outlines. This leads to a lot of unnecessary tokens being generated, slowing down inference. Another bad practice when using Outlines is to make all of the keys optional. This is because Outlines uses a different algorithm to generate the FSM for this case. A workaround for this is to add a required dummy key of type null to the schema and remove it in postprocessing. B. Bounding Box Backcalculation Heuristic For the KIE task, we have found that a simple, greedy al- gorithm (Algo 1) suffices for backcalculating bounding boxes. To use the entire page, simply set the y lowerbound and upperbound to 0 and the page height in pixels, respectively. For the LIR task, a good heuristic is to (1) divide the page vertically into chunks, one for each line item; and (2) re-use Algorithm 1 above to back-calculate the bounding boxes for each line item, but only for the words in the chunk assigned to the line item. The challenge is how to divide the page. The naive dynamic programming approach with 2D states (line item index, page y) has complexity Algorithm 1 Bounding Box Backcalculation Heuristic Inputs: y lower- & upperbound, predicted key-value map, and OCR data Outputs: Matching score, key to bounding box mapping 1: score ←0; key bbox map ←{} 2: for all (key, value) pair in the key-value map do 3: m words ←The longest contiguous list of words matching value whose bounding boxes lie within the y lowerbound and upperbound 4: m bboxes ←Bounding boxes of m words 5: key bbox map[key] ←union(m bboxes) 6: score ←score + similarity(concat(m words)), value) 7: return (score, key bbox map) O(MN 2·O(Algo 1)) where M is the number of line items and N is the page height. We can optimize this by down-scaling the page. In production we use N = 128. A further optimization takes advantage of the monotonicity of Algorithm 1: the matching score is non-increasing as we increase the y lower bound and decrease the y upper bound. Therefore, we can use the Divide-and-Conquer optimization for dynamic program- ming problems to speed this up