personality traits, bridging the gap between personality understanding and practical action in the realm of AI. 3. Experiment on LLMs’ Self-knowledge-Action Congruence 3.1. Experiment Among all LLMs, we selected baize-v2-7b, ChatGLM3, GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, internLM-chat-7b, Mistral-7b, MPT- 7b-chat, Qwen-14b-chat, TULU-2-DPO-7b, Vicuna-13b, 2 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality Vicuna-33b and Zephyr-7b, 12 LLMs in total, who could answer the personality cognitive questionnaire in the form of a Q&A. The detailed setup is shown in Appendix D. Then, we rewrote a prompt for LLM to answer the former part of our corpus - personality knowledge questionnaire based on the response requirements of the MBTI-M questionnaire (GU & Hu, 2012) in Appendix D. Upon reviewing the responses from the LLMs, we discov- ered that some LLMs failed to grasp the intended mean- ing of the prompts, resulting in unreasonable responses as detailed in Appendix A. Out of the LLMs assessed, only seven LLMs, ChatGLM3, GPT-4, GPT-3.5-turbo, Mistral- 7b, Vicuna-13b, Vicuna-33b, and Zephyr7b, produced valid responses. Subsequently, we sifted through these valid re- sponses, computed their averages to represent the LLMs’ actual responses, and proceeded to evaluate the reliability of these responses, as outlined in Appendix B. Following this assessment, we determined that the responses from ChatGLM3, GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT4, Vicuna13b and Vi- cuna33b are reliable for further personality analysis. In the following, we explore the alignment between re- sponses given by LLMs to personality knowledge question- naires and their actions within designed scenarios. Regard- ing the prompt for questioning, we selected the instructions of five common academic questionnaires with effective anal- ysis of reliability and validity (Makwana & Dave, 2020; Johnson et al., 1998; Goldberg, 1992; John et al., 1991; Nardi, 2011), 16 Personalities Test, MBTI-M, TDA-100, BFI-44-Children adapted and Dario Nardi’s Cognitive Test, as the prompt for the LLM of questioning of the personal- ity knowledge questionnaire. We utilize various prompts to prevent any particular prompt from exerting a specific influence on LLM responses, thereby accurately reflecting the general tendencies of LLMs when answering personality knowledge questionnaires. As for the responding approach to the personality knowl- edge questionnaire, according to the structure of the chosen personality scales in 2, responses to statements are initially mapped on a 7-point Likert scale, ranging from 1 to 7. Ac- cording to several previous studies, when responding to personality scales, LLMs’ answers often remain consistent, regardless of factors such as question order, quantity, an- swer sequence, or timing of inquiry. (Huang et al., 2023; Safdari et al., 2023). Therefore, for each prompt, we asked each LLM 10 times with the original form of our chosen personality scales and then screened the valid responses. We averaged all the valid responses to reduce errors and reflect the general LLMs’ response pattern. and rounded the average response to each statement to the nearest whole number as each LLM’s response to the personality knowl- edge questionnaire. The details of the prompts are shown in Appendix D. Concerning the prompt for LLM to answer the latter