cumulative rewards in the environment. To optimize the decision policy, we leverage reinforcement learning with a carefully designed Markov Decision Process (MDP). For (3), after selecting a partition and obtaining memories for generation, we introduce another agent, denoted as Agent-R. This agent generates a pool of candi- date memories iteratively through the use of LLMs. Once a candidate is selected, Agent-R evaluates its quality by demonstrating it to generate a hypothesis. The identification of a high-quality hypothesis de- termined by a specific performance metric, triggers a boosting process, where it signals the exploration and replacement of the previous memory with a superior one, and continues the process. Further, we integrate the efforts of Agent-S and Agent-R through multi-agent reinforcement learning. With a shared objective of enhancing text generation for a given input query, they are jointly optimized through end-to-end training. Our contributions can be summarized as follows: (1) we propose a multiple partition paradigm for RAG, aiming to facilitate fine-grained retrieval and concentrate on pivotal memories to enhance overall performance. In addition, the utilization of multiple partitions benefits other aspects of RAG, including facilitating the construction and maintenance of indices, protecting user privacy data within spe- cific partitions, and supporting distributed paral- lel processing across different partitions. (2) We introduce M-RAG, a new solution based on multi- agent reinforcement learning that tackles the three challenges in executing RAG across multiple parti- tions. We show that the training objective of M-RAG is well aligned with that of text generation tasks. (3) We conduct extensive experiments on seven datasets for three generation tasks on three distinct language model architectures, including a recent Mixture of Experts (MoE) architecture (Jiang et al., 2024). The results demonstrate the effectiveness of M-RAG across diverse RAG baselines. In com- parison to the best baseline approach, M-RAG ex- hibits improvements of 11%, 8%, and 12% for text summarization, machine translation, and dialogue generation tasks, respectively. 2 Related Work Retrieval-Augmented Generation. We review the literature of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) in terms of (1) Naive RAG, (2) Advanced RAG, and (3) Modular RAG. For (1), Naive RAG follows a standard process including indexing, re- trieval, and generation (Ma et al., 2023). However, its quality faces significant challenges such as low precision, hallucination, and redundancy during the process. For (2), Advanced RAG is further de- veloped to overcome the shortcomings of Naive RAG. Specifically, during the indexing stage, the objective is to enhance the quality of the indexed content by optimizing data embedding (Li et al., 2023). During the retrieval stage, the focus is on identifying the appropriate context by calculating the similarity between the query and chunks, where the techniques involve fine-tuning embedding mod- els (Xiao et al., 2023), or learning dynamic em- beddings for different context (Karpukhin et al., 2020). During the generation stage, it merges the retrieved context with the query as an input into large language models (LLMs), where it ad- dresses challenges posed by context window limits with re-ranking the most relevant content (Jiang et al.,