the last decoder’s block is a (3, 256)-shaped em- bedding vector. For the VTO approach, we use the notation V i j to indicate the j-th row of V i. Together with a careful redesign of the loss function, this second approach outperformed the for- mer one. 4.2. Natural Language Branch The NL branch takes care of encoding the NL descrip- tions and mapping them to the same latent space as the vi- sual embeddings. This is necessary to compute a distance measure between the visual input and the textual descrip- tion as output of the pipeline. To fulﬁll this task we adopted the popular model BERT [5] as the core part of the AYCE model, with the addition of a single linear layer to reduce the dimensionality of the embedding from the original 768 to the required 256. Given the i-th tracking sequence, we denote as ti j the j-th textual description out of the three as- sociated ones, with i ∈{1, . . . , N} and j ∈{1, 2, 3}. Similar to the distinction between VSO and VTO de- scribed for the visual branch we experimented with two dif- ferent embedding representations. Language Triple-Output (LTO) This is the straightfor- ward approach, each of the textual descriptions ti j is inde- pendently processed by BERT producing three distinct T i j embedding vectors. T i j = BERT(ti j) for j = 1, 2, 3 (1) Language Single-Output (LSO) In this alternative ap- proach we experimented feeding a string-level concatena- tion to the language model, producing a single embedding for the whole tracking sequence. T i 1+2+3 = BERT(ti 1 ⊕ti 2 ⊕ti 3) (2) where ⊕is the concatenation operation between strings. From now on, since the largest portion of our experi- mentation is carried with the LTO approach, we refer to this solution unless speciﬁed. Ideally we want the follow- ing property to be met: ( d(T i1 j1 , T i1 j2 ) ≪d(T i1 j1 , T i2 j2 ) d(T i j1, T i j2) ≈0 ∀j : j1 ̸= j2 and i : i1 ̸= i2 (3) In our experiments, the metrics used as distance are the Eu- clidean distance and/or the Cosine Metric [21], an adapta- tion of the Cosine Similarity, in which a constant term equal to one is added to the opposite of Cosine similarity to obtain a measure whose resulting values are between 0 and 2. Textual descriptions associated with the same tracking se- quence should be mapped close to each other in the latent space, while the opposite must hold for descriptive sen- tences of distinct tracking sequences. We experimented with a popular implementation of BERT [30] pre-trained on a corpus of English text with a Masked Language Model ob- jective [24]. As shown in Section 5.1, the pre-trained model fails to achieve the property Equation (3), hence in the next section, we detail the proposed solution to ﬁnetune the lan- guage model with a semi-supervised approach to