using embedding models directly to calculate semantic similarities between queries and documents. These embedding models are often trained adversarially using positive and negative query-response pairs [8, 9]. The choice and combination of techniques at each stage profoundly affect the effectiveness and efficiency of RAG systems. Furthermore, according to the latest reviews, there no research on optimizing RAG implementations for Persian languages, with a focus on core components such as retrieval, embedding, and generative models. Historically, most NLP research and development have focused on English, resulting in a shortage of resources, tools, and datasets for other languages. Consequently, the development of advanced NLP systems for languages like Persian lags behind the growing need for such technologies. This paper provides the PersianRAG framework as a real implementation of Persian RAG system through addressing several challenges. The various stages of developing the PersianRAG system includes, data preprocessing, embedding, retrieval, generation and hyperparameter optimization. In proposing PersianRAG, we introduce innovative approaches tailored to the Persian language. These approaches include using advanced tools for Persian text processing, optimizing document segmentation strategies to accommodate Persian language characteristics, selecting and fine-tuning appropriate embedding models for semantic representation in both unstructured text and structured data such as tables, and designing effective strategies to reduce hallucinations in generated responses. Moreover, we emphasize the importance of rigorous system performance evaluation using Persian- specific datasets to ensure the reliability and accuracy of the PersianRAG system with several datasets introduced in this research. II. RETRIEVAL AUGMENTED GENERATION RAG helps produce more accurate and comprehensive responses by combining two approaches retrieval and generation. Unlike purely generative models that respond solely based on their training data, RAG can refer to external knowledge bases and retrieve real-time, accurate information to enhance its responses. In this architecture: • Information retrieval is a process that extracts relevant external knowledge related to the user's query, rather than focusing on information that the language model can easily understand. It aims to find the most relevant pieces of knowledge to support the model’s response generation. • The RAG approach, which combines retrieved information with the language model’s ability to understand and generate human-like text, leads to more accurate and relevant results. This method is particularly useful in domains requiring deep and up- to-date knowledge, such as medicine, law, and science, where it can improve response quality and reduce errors in language models. This reception from RAG systems was primarily due to two factors: first, the impressive capabilities offered by LLMs, and second, because it combines the strengths of retrieval-based and generation-based models to improve text generation tasks. Essentially, the advantage of using RAG lies in leveraging the power of LLMs to generate responses based on documents that these LLMs may not have previously seen or been trained on. In specific domains, this means obtaining high-quality and precise answers to questions for which an LLM might not have an inherent response. III. PERSIANRAG ARCHITECTURE Despite major advancements in the capabilities of language models, RAG remains a highly relevant and efficient option