Scaling Behavior of Machine Translation with Large Language Models under Prompt Injection Attacks Zhifan Sun University of Edinburgh sunzhifan233@gmail.com Antonio Valerio Miceli-Barone University of Edinburgh amiceli@ed.ac.uk Abstract Large Language Models (LLMs) are increas- ingly becoming the preferred foundation plat- forms for many Natural Language Processing tasks such as Machine Translation, owing to their quality often comparable to or better than task-specific models, and the simplicity of spec- ifying the task through natural language instruc- tions or in-context examples. Their generality, however, opens them up to subversion by end users who may embed into their requests in- structions that cause the model to behave in unauthorized and possibly unsafe ways. In this work we study these Prompt Injection Attacks (PIAs) on multiple families of LLMs on a Ma- chine Translation task, focusing on the effects of model size on the attack success rates. We introduce a new benchmark data set and we discover that on multiple language pairs and in- jected prompts written in English, larger mod- els under certain conditions may become more susceptible to successful attacks, an instance of the Inverse Scaling phenomenon (McKen- zie et al., 2023). To our knowledge, this is the first work to study non-trivial LLM scaling behaviour in a multi-lingual setting. 1 Introduction General purpose pretrained Large Language Mod- els have become the dominant paradigm in NLP, due to their ability to quickly adapt to almost any task with in-context few-shot learning (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2022) or instruction following (Ouyang et al., 2022). In most settings, the performance of LLMs pre- dictably increases with their size according to em- pirical scaling laws (Kaplan et al., 2020a; Her- nandez et al., 2021; Hoffmann et al., 2022), how- ever recent works have discovered scenarios where not only LLMs misbehave, but they even become worse with increasing size, a phenomenon known as Inverse Scaling, or exhibit non-monotonic per- formance w.r.t. size, e.g. U-shaped Scaling or Inverse U-shaped Scaling (Parrish et al., 2022; Lin et al., 2022; Miceli Barone et al., 2023), with many more such scenarios being discovered during the Inverse Scaling Prize (McKenzie et al., 2023). One such class of scenarios is Prompt Injection Attacks (PIAs), where the end-user embeds instructions in their requests that contradict the default system prompt or fine-tuning and thus manipulate the LLM to behave in ways not intended by the system devel- oper, such as performing a task different than the intended one, revealing secret information included in the system prompt, subvert content moderation, and so on. In the Inverse Scaling Prize, PIAs were evaluated on simple tasks such as word capital- ization and repetition, showing strong asymptotic inverse scaling, meaning that the larger the LLMs are, the more susceptible they become to these at- tacks. In this work, we evaluate the scaling behavior of Prompt Injection Attacks on Prompt-based Ma- chine Translation. Prompt-based Machine Trans- lation (PMT) consists of using a general-purpose LLM to do machine translation by asking it to trans-