near-zero detection rate, unlike prior attacks that are almost always detected. We aim to craft natural queries—those resembling ordinary user inputs—yet highly specific to a target document. The premise here is that such a document contains information that is uniquely specific, often the rationale for employing RAG in the first place. To lever- age this specificity, we design questions likely to be answerable only in the document’s presence. Increasing the number of queries would help cover multiple descriptive aspects of the document, en- hancing coverage and specificity for membership inference. These queries should be natural, relevant, and easy to validate, ensuring effectiveness and plausibility. When aggregated, they yield reliable membership signals without arousing suspicion. Our attack (IA) has three main stages: generating queries (Sec- tion 5.1) , generating ground-truth answers for these queries (Sec- tion 5.2), and finally aggregating model responses for membership inference (Section 5.3). 5.1 Query Generation We begin by creating a set of queries that are highly specific to the target document 𝑑∗. The overarching goal is to produce questions that are natural in form—thus undetectable—and highly relevant to 𝑑∗, making them effective probes for membership. Concretely, each query must simultaneously: (i) ensure retrieval of the target document 𝑑∗(if present in the RAG) by incorporating keywords or contextual clues, and (ii) probe with questions that can only be accurately answered with the target document 𝑑∗as relevant context. We achieve this by designing a two-part query format consisting of a Retrieval Summary and a Probe Question, as described below. Retrieval Summary. We first craft a dedicated prompt, denoted Psum, to guide an LLM in producing a short, natural-sounding de- scription𝑠∗. This summary, generated only once per target document, includes key terms from 𝑑∗and mimics realistic user queries (e.g., “I have a question about ...”). Including these keywords increases the likelihood of retrieving 𝑑∗, assuming it resides in the RAG system’s knowledge base. The exact prompts used to generate 𝑠∗are detailed in the Appendix (Figure 16). 5 You are a helpful assistant, below is a query from a user and some relevant contexts… Contexts 𝐷𝑘: Query : ෝ𝑞𝑖 ෝ𝑞𝑖 gn g1 g2 rn 𝑟 r2 RAG System 𝒮 LLM (GPT-4o) Shadow LLM (GPT-4o mini) Target Document 𝒅∗ System Instruction Generator 𝒢 Private Database 𝒟 Retriever ℛ Ground-truth Answers 𝑮 RAG’s Responses 𝑹 1 𝑛෍𝕀ri = gi −𝜆𝕀[ri = UNK] MIA Score .… .… .… qn q1 q2 Generated Queries 𝑸 .… Query Rewriting Malicious Input Detection Figure 2: Overview of the problem setting and our Interrogation attack. Given black-box access to a RAG system S, the adversary wants to infer membership of a given target document in the RAG’s private database. Our method uses auxiliary LLMs to generate benign queries in the form of natural questions, and uses the correctness of the generated responses as a signal for membership inference test. Probe Question. Next, we generate a set of questions that are highly aligned with the content of 𝑑∗. Drawing inspiration from doc2query tasks in the IR literature, we