value of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning by enhancing the prompt with the phrase "let’s think step-by-step" [20, 21]. False positives and false negatives were manually reviewed while iterating on prompt design. From this analysis, we concluded that our prompts needed to explicitly guide the model to consider possible cases of PH as negative diagnosis and history of PH as positive diagnosis. We found a fair amount of variability in performance across these different prompt designs without any prominent features defining those prompts that appeared to perform best. Therefore we chose the prompt design presented in Figure 2, which is composed of CoT, multiple choice, history of PH and possible PH steering. See Appendix A.3 Table 4 for the description of each prompt evaluated. Figure 2: An illustrative example of zero-shot prompt. Retrieval Exclusions While reviewing model errors on the validation set, we observed that a noteworthy percentage of false positives originated from echocardiogram (ECHO) or computerized tomography (CT) reports noting suspicion of PH without any confirmatory diagnostic testing nor a clinical diagnosis by a provider. This was not surprising since it is known that both ECHO and CT have higher error rates when compared to the gold standard diagnostic i.e. right heart catheterization (RHC) [22, 23, 24, 25]. As these reports typically exhibit a consistent structure, we explored the possibility of excluding snippets extracted from the reports in two ways: (1) employing regular expressions to filter out snippets containing headers and common language found in these reports and (2) enhancing our prompts to instruct the LLM to disregard ECHO and CT reports. Results on the validation set indicated improvements in the performance of the model when excluding these snippets; therefore, we decided to include this filter in the final architecture. We also noticed that the structured phenotype definition did not include ECHO reports as it was built solely using structured EHRs and not clinical notes. Aggregation Evaluation LLM-based aggregation methods, whether using the same or different prompts at the snippet level, resulted in average F1 scores of 0.67 and 0.68, respectively, with significant variability in performance across choice of prompting design. In contrast, Max aggregation achieved an F1 score of 0.73, also providing increased stability across different prompts. Comparing LLM and Structured Phenotypes Table 1 compares the performance of three varia- tions of the LLM-based phenotyping architecture with the structured phenotype baseline developed by a physician on the test set. As demonstrated, LLM-based phenotypes generally show improve- ments between 18% and 21% over the structured phenotype. We did observe a notable drop in F1 4 scores, ranging from 0.05 to 0.1, in the performance of LLM-based methods compared to the results obtained on the validation set (see Appendix A.2 Table 2), which might be attributed to the larger evaluation cohort and potentially to some overfitting on the training set. Nevertheless, the LLM-based methods significantly outperformed the structured phenotype method, resulting in the identification of approximately twice as many patients with a confirmed diagnosis of PH. In a real-world application, these patients