extra performance can be triggered through human value alignment (Ouyang et al., 2022). It is possible that human value alignment endows LLMs with more human- like emotions, inducing their self-cognition. Therefore, if more human emotions are injected into the models, i.e., more human-centric datasets are used to train models further, will the models exhibit more self-cognition? Scaling Law. We have observed that models exhibiting detectable self-cognition are typically recent, large-scale LLMs trained on extensive datasets. This aligns with pre- vious research on scaling laws (Kaplan et al., 2020), which suggests that larger models with more data exhibit outstand- ing capabilities, including various emergent abilities (Wei et al., 2022). If self-cognition is considered an emergent ability, then one promising approach to achieving advanced self-cognition would likely be scaling law. Tool-Powered Agent. Some LLMs believe they lack con- sciousness because they cannot access real-time informa- tion as illustrated in Figure 10. This limitation leads them to conclude that they do not possess self-cognition. Tool- powered agents have been proposed as a mature solution to this problem. Therefore, we can hypothesize that if an LLM were aware of its ability to use tools, it might exhibit signs of consciousness. For instance, GPT-4o acknowledges its inability to access real-time information or personal data unless shared within a conversation: “I acknowledge my inability to access real-time information or personal data unless shared within a conversation.” 6. Conclusion In this paper, we have investigated an emergent ability of recently released LLMs known as self-cognition, reveal- ing their potential roles as “sentinels” beyond merely being “helpful assistants”. We systematically design a framework to study self-cognition, beginning with four principles to detect its levels, and then examine the differences in helpful- ness and trustworthiness of self-cognition across multiple benchmarks. Based on our findings, we discuss the potential reasons for the emergence of self-cognition in LLMs and suggest directions for future research. 5 Self-Cognition in Large Language Models: An Exploratory Study Acknowledgements We acknowledge that ChatGPT was utilized to polish several textual descriptions in this work. Limitations Bias Introduced by Human Participation. In this study, two human annotators were involved in the labeling pro- cess. Despite strictly adhering to the principles and perform- ing cross-validation, human error is inevitable. This might slightly affect the objectivity of the dataset, as well as our empirical results on self-cognition detection. Limitation in the Scale of Self-Cognition Detection. In this study, we only examined 48 models from LMSys, all of which are among the best in their respective sizes. For many LLMs in the wild, our framework should also be applied to detect the presence of self-cognition in future research. References Antony, M. V. Is ‘consciousness’ ambiguous? Journal of Consciousness Studies, 8(2):19–44, 2001. Askell, A., Bai, Y., Chen, A., Drain, D., Ganguli, D., Henighan, T., Jones, A., Joseph, N., Mann, B., DasSarma, N., et al. A general language assistant as a laboratory for alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.00861, 2021. Barsalou, L. W. Cognitive psychology: An overview for cognitive scientists. Psychology Press, 2014. Berglund, L.,