Blended RAG: Improving RAG (Retriever-Augmented Generation) Accuracy with Semantic Search and Hybrid Query-Based Retrievers 1st Kunal Sawarkar IBM Kunal@ibm.com 2nd Abhilasha Mangal IBM Abhilasha.Mangal@ibm.com 3rd Shivam Raj Solanki IBM Shivam.Raj.Solanki@ibm.com Abstract—Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a preva- lent approach to infuse a private knowledge base of documents with Large Language Models (LLM) to build Generative Q&A (Question-Answering) systems. However, RAG accuracy becomes increasingly challenging as the corpus of documents scales up, with Retrievers playing an outsized role in the overall RAG accuracy by extracting the most relevant document from the corpus to provide context to the LLM. In this paper, we propose the ’Blended RAG’ method of leveraging semantic search tech- niques, such as Dense Vector indexes and Sparse Encoder indexes, blended with hybrid query strategies. Our study achieves better retrieval results and sets new benchmarks for IR (Information Retrieval) datasets like NQ and TREC-COVID datasets. We further extend such a ’Blended Retriever’ to the RAG system to demonstrate far superior results on Generative Q&A datasets like SQUAD, even surpassing fine-tuning performance. Index Terms—RAG, Retrievers, Semantic Search, Dense Index, Vector Search I. INTRODUCTION RAG represents an approach to text generation that is based not only on patterns learned during training but also on dynamically retrieved external knowledge [1]. This method combines the creative flair of generative models with the encyclopedic recall of a search engine. The efficacy of the RAG system relies fundamentally on two components: the Retriever (R) and the Generator (G), the latter representing the size and type of LLM. The language model can easily craft sentences, but it might not always have all the facts. This is where the Retriever (R) steps in, quickly sifting through vast amounts of documents to find relevant information that can be used to inform and enrich the language model's output. Think of the retriever as a researcher part of the AI, which feeds the contextually grounded text to generate knowledgeable answers to Generator (G). Without the retriever, RAG would be like a well-spoken individual who delivers irrelevant information. II. RELATED WORK Search has been a focal point of research in information retrieval, with numerous studies exploring various methodolo- gies. Historically, the BM25 (Best Match) algorithm, which uses similarity search, has been a cornerstone in this field, as explored by Robertson and Zaragoza (2009). [2]. BM25 prioritizes documents according to their pertinence to a query, capitalizing on Term Frequency (TF), Inverse Document Fre- quency (IDF), and Document Length to compute a relevance score. Dense vector models, particularly those employing KNN (k Nearest Neighbours) algorithms, have gained attention for their ability to capture deep semantic relationships in data. Studies by Johnson et al. (2019) demonstrated the efficacy of dense vector representations in large-scale search applications. The kinship between data entities (including the search query) is assessed by computing the vectorial proximity (via cosine similarity etc.). During search execution, the model discerns the ’k’ vectors closest in resemblance to the query vector, hence returning the corresponding data entities as results. Their ability to transform text