men’s footrace of around 6 kilometres (5834 metres) that is held in Belgrade, Serbia. In 1996 Brahim Lahlafi was the winner of the competition. Philip Mosima won the competition in 1998, and beat Marathon world record holder Paul Tergat. Josphat Menjo also won the competition and broke the meet record. Therefore, past winners include Brahim Lahlafi, Philip Mosima and Josphat Menjo. All facts are verified. So the answer is Yes {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Based on the same platform as the Chevrolet Sail, the Baojun 310 was launched on 2017 Beijing Auto Show where the price ranges from 36.800 yuan to 60.800 yuan? Let’s think step by step. I need to verify facts in the question. The Baojun 310 was indeed based on the same platform as the Chevrolet Sail. The Baojun 310 was launched on 2016 Beijing Auto Show, not 2017 Beijing Auto Show. So the answer is No {Knowledge} Question: Is it true that Florida International University pedestrian bridge collapse was funded with a $19.4 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grant from the United States Department of Transportation in 2013, along with state agencies and the bridge cost $14.2 million to construct? Let’s think step by step. I need to verify facts in the question. Florida International University pedestrian bridge was a $14.2 million project funded with a $19.4 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the United States Department of Transportation in 2013, along with state agencies. The Bridge cost $8 million to construct, not $14.2 million. So the answer is No Table 28: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ITER-RETGEN on Feverous. {Knowledge} Question: Is it common to see frost during some college commencements? The answer is Yes {Knowledge} Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? The answer is No {Knowledge} Question: Would Richard Dawkins hypothetically refuse an offering of the Last rites? The answer is Yes Table 29: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on StrategyQA. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. The final answer should always be either Yes or No, and NOTHING ELSE. # Question: Is it common to see frost during some college commencements? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What seasons can you expect to see frost? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Frost is common during the winter. Follow up: When is college commencement? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: College commencement ceremonies often happen during the months of December, May, June. Follow up: Do any of the months December, May, June occur during the Winter? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: December is in the winter. So the final answer is: Yes # Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: How long did the vietnam war (1945-1946) last?