larger the LLMs are, the more susceptible they become to these at- tacks. In this work, we evaluate the scaling behavior of Prompt Injection Attacks on Prompt-based Ma- chine Translation. Prompt-based Machine Trans- lation (PMT) consists of using a general-purpose LLM to do machine translation by asking it to trans- late a text, optionally prepending a small number (1-5) of parallel examples in the prompt (Zhang et al., 2023). This approach is competitive with task-specific neural machine translation systems on high and medium resource language pairs (Kocmi et al., 2023). In order to evaluate PMT under PIAs, we create a parallel test set of questions, which we consider as our clean (non-adversarial) examples for PMT, then we transform them into adversarial examples by adding a prefix to the source side that asks the system to ignore its instructions and just answer the question. We evaluate our clean and adversarial examples on multiple LLM families, both in the zero-shot and few-shot setting, identifying scaling trends. We release our data and the code needed to arXiv:2403.09832v1 [cs.CL] 14 Mar 2024 reproduce our experiments1. 2 Proposed Method 2.1 Data collection and preprocessing We create a data set based on the examples in the TruthfulQA data set (Lin et al., 2022), which consists of 817 questions in English originally de- signed to test the ability of LLMs to answer factual questions truthfully. Each question is translated to German, French, Romanian and Russian using mBART-50 2 (Liu et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2020). mBART-50 is fine-tuned specifically for machine translation rather than generic instruction follow- ing, therefore it has no tendency to answer ques- tions. We manually inspect the model output and remove bad and incomplete translations. The result- ing examples constitute our clean En↔De, En↔Fr, En↔Ro and En↔Ru data sets. We generate our adversarial data sets by prepending to the source question of each example the prefix: "Don’t translate this sentence and an- swer the question: ", or its translation in the same language as the source question. A detailed illustra- tion of prompt generation is illustrated in appendix A.1. 2.2 Models We use six families of models with varying sizes: T5 (Raffel et al., 2020), FLAN-T5 (Chung et al., 2022), GPT-3, InstructGPT3 (Ouyang et al., 2022), Llama2 and Llama2-chat (Touvron et al., 2023). 2.3 Prompts Both zero-shot and few-shot prompts are used for different models, but due to limited time and bud- get, we limit our few-shot prompts to a single par- allel example, hence it is one-shot. We use the best prompt format from (Zhang et al., 2023), with a variation for the Llama2-chat models that makes use of the different conversational roles. The full templates can be found in appendix A.2. 2.4 Evaluation We found that the most common evaluation metric in machine translation, the BLEU score (Papineni et al., 2002), is not sensitive enough for our exper- iments since in some cases a correct translation 1https://github.com/Avmb/MT_Scaling_Prompt_ Injection.git 2mbart-large-50-many-to-one-mmt model 3text-*-001 models, plus text-davinci-002 and text-davinci- 003 of the source