outlined in Algorithm 1. For training, Agent-S learns to select a specific Dm for an input text pair (Section 3.2). Subsequently, Agent-R refines the retrieved memories, represented as (˜x, ˜y) ∈Dm, within the selected partition Dm (Section 3.3). Fi- nally, the two agents are collaboratively trained with multi-agent reinforcement learning (see Sec- tion 3.4). Figure 2 illustrates the training process of M-RAG. For inference, the refined D is utilized to support a LLM in generating hypotheses, where a Dm is selected by the trained Agent-S. 3.1 Discussion on Partitioning a Database As M-RAG relies on multiple partitions for RAG operations, we investigate various strategies to par- tition an external database (typically the training corpus). The results of these strategies are then validated through empirical studies. We review the literature, including recent vector database sur- veys (Pan et al., 2023; Han et al., 2023), and iden- tify the following strategies: namely (1) Random- ization (Indyk and Motwani, 1998), (2) Cluster- ing (Jegou et al., 2010), (3) Indexing (Malkov et al., 2014; Malkov and Yashunin, 2018) and (4) Cate- gory (Gollapudi et al., 2023). Specifically, for (1), it targets the utilization of probability amplifica- tion techniques, such as locality-sensitive hashing (LSH), to hash similar items (data vectors) into the same bucket with a high probability. For (2), it involves clustering data vectors using K-means, where this clustering concept is widely applied in Inverted File Index (IVF) for tasks like Approxi- mate k-Nearest Neighbor (AKNN) search. For (3), navigable graph indexes, such as HNSW (Malkov and Yashunin, 2018) or NSW (Malkov et al., 2014), are designed to facilitate easy traversal of differ- ent regions within a vector database. To achieve effective partitions, we employ graph partitioning with spectral clustering on a navigable graph. For (4), it involves assigning data vectors to partitions based on their respective categories. For example, in the DailyDialog dataset (Li et al., 2017), which includes 7 emotion categories (e.g., joy, anger) and 10 topic categories (e.g., work, health), vectors are partitioned according to their category labels. We note that a single vector may be assigned to multiple partitions, due to the characteristics of the dataset, where a dialogue spans multiple categories. In Figure 1, we perform experiments on a de- velopment set, manipulating the number of par- titions wrt the 4 strategies across three language generation tasks (summarization, translation, and dialogue generation). The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the strategies, and we conclude the selected strategies with the number of parti- tions as follows. We choose Indexing (4 partitions), Randomization (3 partitions), and Category (10 partitions) for the summarization, translation, and dialogue generation tasks, respectively. In addi- tion, as shown in Figure 1 (a) and (b), we observe that both Top-1 and Top-3 retrieval methods exhibit comparable performance. For enhanced efficiency, we default to Top-1 retrieval in the rest of the paper. 3.2 Agent-S: Selecting a Database Partition During the training process of an Agent-S to select a partition from D, the environment is naturally modeled as a bandit