syntax verifiers. D Sample code snippets and execution feedback We collect sample code snippets and execution feedback in constructing the knowledge base. Specifically, we prompt LLMs to write short scripts of sample usage of each function in the documen- tation corpus. We then execute those scripts. If the execution of a code snippet reports errors, we include it as a pair of (code, error); otherwise, we regard it as a code snippet that could demonstrate the syntax and function usage. E Cost Analysis Despite significant enhancement of EVOR in the generalization results, the iterative process that in- volves multiple LLM generations incurs large costs. In this section, we discuss the trade-off between the cost and the performance. To measure the cost, we count the total tokens processed by LLM through- out the process in each example. From Table 7, we can see that, the exceptional performance is linked to the extensive processing of tokens. Compared to employing Single-time-Q, which simulates the traditional RAG pipeline and directly uses the question as the query to retrieve documentation, ChatGPT and CodeLlama achieve 2.9% and 4.1% performance gain in average execu- tion accuracy by using Single-time, which formu- lates the query as the explained code and retrieves from diverse knowledge soup. This enhancement is at the expense of around 25% more processed tokens for both models. With active retrieval, the average performance further increases by 15.4% and 15.1% for ChatGPT and CodeLlama respec- tively. However, the processed tokens increase by more than 2 times for both models. With a notable increase in both cost and performance, there arises a trade-off for practitioners to carefully weigh and adjust according to their specific requirements. F More Experimental Setting In all settings, we leave a length of 400 for genera- tion and adopt ChatGPT as the LLM to explain the code, i.e., all the code is fairly translated into the explained code. In every iteration of active retrieval and LLM generation, we add the examples with correct syntax (judged by executors with sample inputs) to the set of code snippets and only rectify the code with syntax error. For each of the knowledge sources considered in this paper, we adopt the following principles if Model: ChatGPT Model: CodeLlama Method Monkey BeatNum TorchData Avg. Monkey BeatNum TorchData Avg. Vanilla 38.6 27.7 42.0 36.1 80.2 70.3 54.0 68.2 EVOR 67.3 70.3 74.0 70.5 93.1 90.1 92.0 91.7 Table 5: We evaluate the zero-shot ChatGPT and CodeLlama on three private libraries. Although we observe significant improvements of EVOR, the exceptionally high accuracy of CodeLlama Vanilla (zero-shot) performance suggests the risk of data leakage, making it less reliable to assess model generalization capabilities. Model: ChatGPT Model: CodeLlama Scipy-M Tensor-M Ring Pony Scipy-M Tensor-M Ring Pony 89.2 93.3 100.0 100.0 86.8 91.1 95.6 96.8 Table 6: The accuracy of ChatGPT (left) and CodeLlama (right) in generating valid program inputs. Although LLMs cannot guarantee to write accurate test cases, their performance in generating only program inputs is exceptionally high. it is included in