Swedish scientist Svante Pääbo for sequencing the genome of the Neanderthal. Data adjustment and filtering by Human { “Question”: “Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine?”, “Answer”: ['Svante Pääbo','Svante Paabo’] } Data generation by ChatGPT Retrieve using search engine Rerank by dense retrieval model We simulate the process of a user querying and obtaining information. Suppose the user retrieves a current event news, speculate the event that the user is concerned about and the question that he/she may want to know, and generate the key information corresponding to the answer to the question. … … News: The 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine was … Related event: 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine Question: Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine? Key information: Svante Pääbo and Svante Paabo gpt-3.5-turbo api Query: Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine?”, {"link": "https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/medicine/", "title": "The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2022", "snippet": "The Nobel Assembly..."}, ... Google Search API Chun2 Chunk Who was awarded the 2022 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine?”, Dense retrieval model Top1 Chunk Top30 Chunk Top2 Chunk …… …… Figure 2: The process of data generation. Firstly, we use models to extract (event, question, answer) from news ar- ticles. Next, we utilize search engines to retrieve relevant web pages. Finally, a dense retrieval model is employed to re-rank the content of these web pages. et al. 2019a,b; Peng et al. 2023), domain-specific ques- tion answering (Cui et al. 2023) and code generation (Zhou et al. 2023b). Recently, with the development of large mod- els, a series of retrieval-enhanced tools and products have gained widespread attention, such as ChatGPT retrieval plu- gin, Langchain, New Bing, etc. However, in real-world sce- narios, the retrieved text inevitably contains noise. There- fore, in this paper we conducted a systematic evaluation and analysis of retrieval-augmented generation in LLMs. Evaluation of LLMs Evaluating LLMs has received sig- nificant attention due to their remarkable general capabil- ity (Chang et al. 2023). It enables us to gain a deeper under- standing of the specific abilities and limitations of LLMs, while also providing valuable guidance for future research. In the past, benchmarks such as GLUE (Wang et al. 2019b) and SuperCLUE (Wang et al. 2019a) primarily focused on evaluating NLP tasks, particularly in natural language un- derstanding. However, these evaluations often fail to fully capture the capabilities of LLMs. MMLU (Hendrycks et al. 2021) was then proposed to measure the knowledge acquired by language models when pre-training. Recently, with the development of LLMs, a series of general evaluation bench- marks have emerged, such as AGIEval (Zhong et al. 2023), C-Eval (Huang et al. 2023), AlpacaEval (Li et al. 2023b), OpenLLM Leaderboard (Edward Beeching 2023), etc. In addition to general abilities, there are also specific bench- marks that focus on evaluating the capabilities of models. For example, CValues (Xu et al. 2023a) focuses on the safety and responsibility of LLMs, M3Exam (Zhang et al.