vectors, facilitating co- sine similarity computations during the retrieval phase and ensuring uniformity across experiments. RQ#1: In addition to the mentioned segmentation approaches, for this work- flow, dynamic segmentation was tested, testing two models to assess their perfor- mance. The first model, simple-qwen-0.5, is a straightforward solution designed to identify boundaries based on the structural elements of the document. Its sim- plicity makes it efficient for basic segmentation needs, offering a computationally lightweight approach. The second model, topic-qwen-0.5, inspired by Chain-of-Thought reason- ing, enhances segmentation by identifying topics within the text. By segmenting text based on topic boundaries, this approach captures richer semantic relation- ships, making it suitable for tasks requiring a deeper understanding of document content. RQ#2: In this workflow, for the ContextualRankFusion evaluation, contextual- ization of the chunks before the embedding is necessary. To contextualize each chunk, we prompt Microsoft’s LLM model Phi3.5-mini-instruct to generate a brief summary that situates the chunk within the overall document, formatting the prompt with the chunk and its relative original document. 7 https://jina.ai/embeddings/ Reconstructing Context 9 4.2 Retrieval Evaluation RQ#2: In this workflow, specifically for the ContextualRankFusion retrieval, the document retrieval has been enhanced with two additional steps (see Sec- tion 3.2). In the reranking step, Rank Fusion was allowed through Milvus Vec- tor Database, which integrates with BM25 through the BM25EmbeddingFunction class, enabling hybrid search across dense and sparse vector fields. After retrieving the top documents, these are reordered through the reranker model Jina Reranker V2 Base model,8 that employes a cross-encoder archi- tecture that processes each query-document pair individually, outputting a rel- evance score. This design enables the model to capture intricate semantic rela- tionships between the query and the document before being given to the LLM. Scorings. For both approaches in RQ#1 and RQ#2, when querying the embed- ding database (generated in 4.1), the output will be a ranked list of chunks, ordered from the most similar to the query to the least similar. We employ a straightforward aggregation strategy to transition from chunk-level rankings to document-level rankings. Specifically, for each document, we consider the score of its most significant chunk as the representative value for the entire document. This approach ensures that a document’s relevance is determined by its most relevant chunk. Once the document scores are determined, we generate a ranked list of docu- ments based on these scores. From this ranking, we extract the top-k documents, focusing on the Top 5 or Top 10 documents, depending on the specific evaluation scenario. This final document ranking is then used to assess the effectiveness of the retrieval process. This methodology highlights the importance of individual chunks in influ- encing the overall document ranking and ensures that highly relevant chunks directly impact the document’s position in the final ranking. Metrics. To evaluate the performance of our model, we utilize three key met- rics: NDCG , MAP, and F1-score. Each metric serves a specific purpose in as- sessing different aspects of the results. Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG): It measures