1. An example of an operation that uses this is SIN. • Input 2: The index of the second tensor input. This is only used by operations that are binary with respect to tensor inputs. An example of an operation that uses this is ADD. • Constant: A real valued constant. An example of an operation that uses this is MAX; tf.math.maximum(x, C) for C = 0 is how we express the Transformer’s ReLU activation. • Dimension Size: An integer representing the output dimension size for transformations that utilize weight matrices. An example of an operation that uses this is CONV 1X1, the dense projection used by the Transformer’s attention projections and feed forward portions. See Appendix A.2 for how we employ relative dimensions [13] to resize our models. Our search subprograms are converted to TF programs by converting each subprogram instruction to a corresponding line of TF code, one at a time in indexing order. To create the TF line, the instruction operation is mapped to the corresponding TF primitive function or DNA subprogram, and any relevant arguments are plugged in (see Appendix A.1 for the full TF primitives vocabulary, including argument mappings); the other arguments are ignored. The TF tensor that is generated by the ﬁnal instruction is taken as the subprogram output. We do not use TF Eager and so a useful property of the constructed programs is that irrelevant nodes that do not contribute to the programs’ outputs are ignored as per TF’s original deferred execution design [10]. See Figure 2 for an illustration of how subprograms are converted to TF graphs and see Appendix A.2 for more details on how TF graphs are constructed, including how we handle causal masking. (h2) CONV 1X1 Input_1: h0 Input_2: Ignore Dim: 512 Constant: Ignore Subprogram 1 (h3) SIN Input_1: h1 Input_2: Ignore Dim: Ignore Constant: Ignore (h4) MUL Input_1: h2 Input_2: h3 Dim: Ignore Constant: Ignore (h5) ADD Input_1: h0 Input_2: h2 Dim: Ignore Constant: Ignore def subprogram_1(h0, h1): h2 = tf.layers.dense(h0, 512) h3 = tf.math.sin(h1) h4 = tf.math.multiply(h2, h3) h5 = tf.math.add(h0, h2) # last state is output output = h5 return output (h0) IN 0 OUT (h3) SIN (h1) IN 1 (h4) MUL (h5) ADD (h2) CONV 1X1 Figure 2: Example of a program converted into its corresponding TensorFlow graph. Nodes that do not contribute to the program output are not executed thanks to TensorFlow’s deferred execution design. 3 Evolutionary Search: The goal of our evolutionary search is to ﬁnd the most training efﬁcient architecture in the search space. To do this, we give each model a ﬁxed training budget (24 TPUv2 hours) and deﬁne its ﬁtness as its perplexity on the One Billion Words Benchmark (LM1B) [24] in Tensor2Tensor [25]. This approach, which we call an implicit efﬁciency objective by ﬁxed training budget, contrasts previous architecture search works that explicitly aim to reduce training or inference step time when optimizing for efﬁciency [26, 27, 28, 29]. Our objective is different in that the trade-off between