the correct tools; and (ii) Task shift from conventional information- seeking tasks (e.g., document retrieval) to tool re- trieval, leading to suboptimal performance of IR models that are not explicitly optimized. To enhance the retrieval performance and enable IR models to augment tool-use agents, we further propose the TOOLRET-train, a large-scale train- ing dataset containing more than 200k retrieval tasks. We extend our data collection process from TOOLRET to include the training set of three main- stream tool-use datasets, including ToolACE (Liu et al., 2024a), APIGen (Liu et al., 2024b) and Tool- Bench (Qin et al., 2023). To enable the training, we pair each retrieval task with 10 negative tools re- trieved by the NV-embed-v1. Finally, each training example contains the query, an generated instruc- tion, the target tools, and the negative tools. Results show that the IR models trained over TOOLRET- train, exhibit significant improvements in the re- trieval process, leading to a higher end-to-end task pass rate when integrated with tool-use LLMs. Our contributions are summarized as follows: (i) We introduce TOOLRET, the first evaluation bench- mark for tool retrieval tasks. (ii) We evaluate the tool retrieval performance of various IR models and analyze the impact of retrieval on the end-to- end task pass rate of tool-use LLMs; and (iii) We contribute to a large-scale training dataset that en- hances the performance of IR models, improving their ability to augment tool-use LLMs effectively. 2 Related work Tool learning with foundation models. Tool learn- ing aims to equip LLMs with tools, such as web API (Song et al., 2023) and python packages (Wang et al., 2024d), expanding their utility (Qin et al., 2023). Existing work teaching LLMs to use tools can be broadly classified into tuning-free (Lu et al., 2023) and tuning-based methods (Gao et al., 2024). The former prepends the description of candidate tools in the LLMs’ context, prompting them to se- lect and invoke tools (Huang et al., 2023). The latter enables LLMs to learn the usage of each tool through training on synthetic data (Liu et al., 2024a; Gao et al., 2024). However, both two paradigms struggle when facing the large-scale toolset in prac- tice (Qu et al., 2024b; Liu et al., 2024b). First, real-world toolsets are typically massive, making it less possible to incorporate all tools within the limited context of LLMs. For example, the Rapi- dAPI platform contains more than 52k tools while the PyPI2 hosts over 600k frequently updated pack- ages. Second, since tools are frequently updated, it is cost-intensive to re-train the LLMs to memo- rize all tools (Qu et al., 2025a). Although recent studies address this challenge using semantic re- trievers (Qin et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024c), these solutions are typically ad-hoc and lack systematic evaluation across diverse tool retrieval scenarios. To fill this gap, we present the first comprehensive tool retrieval benchmark with systematic analysis. Information retrieval benchmark. Conventional information retrieval (IR) benchmarks are typically designed for information-seeking tasks, such as Nature Question (Kwiat kowski et al., 2019)