the concept of Frame Semantics in cognitive lin- guistics, which purportedly facilitate human under- standing of words by allowing us to recall pertinent information. Frame semantics (Fillmore et al., 2006) is a theory of linguistic meaning that emphasises that the meanings of words are best understood by the semantic and conceptual “frames” or “schemas” within which they function. A frame is a cogni- tive structure that helps individuals understand and perceive the world around them, enabling them to organise knowledge based on typical situations, actions, or common experiences. In linguistics, a frame influences how the meanings of words are interpreted in different contexts. For example, the word “sell” invokes a commercial transaction frame involving a seller, a buyer, an item being sold, and an agreed price and helps to predict and explain the use of other related words and the roles they play within the same context. FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998) is an online database based on frame semantics, with the goal to catalogue English words and their associated semantic frames, defining the various roles and relations in a frame and illustrat- ing these with example sentences. Each “frame” in FrameNet captures a specific type of event, relation, or entity and the roles associated with it. For ex- ample, the COMMERCE_SELL frame in FrameNet includes roles for the seller, the buyer, the goods being sold, and is annotated to be inherited by the frame RENTING_OUT and as a “perspective on” the frame COMMERCE_GOODS-TRANSFER. 3 Frame Semantic RAG This section provides an overview of Frame Se- mantic RAG (FS-RAG), the proposed mechanism of storing and indexing factual information to aid effective retrieval for the mutation of hallucina- tions in LLMs. In evaluating our mechanism of retrieval we make use of Entailment Bank, (Dalvi et al., 2021), which comprises science questions from school years 4 to 6, along with relevant facts and “entailment trees”. Consider Table 1, which presents an example from the Entailment-Bank dataset. The original task involves building an entailment tree to answer questions and consists of three tasks at different lev- Question How might eruptions affect plants? Associated Facts F1: eruptions emit lava; F2: eruptions produce ash clouds; F3: plants have green leaves; F4: plant producers die without sunlight; F5: ash clouds block sunlight. Inference Steps F2 + F5 implies I1: eruptions block sunlight; F4 + I1 implies I2: eruptions can cause plants to die. Answer eruptions can cause plants to die. Table 1: An example question from Entailment Bank and associated factoids. Language models find it signifi- cantly easier to generate the required entailment trees when presented with all relevant facts. However, the fact that the retrieval of relevant facts is non-trivial motivates a frame semantics based mechanism for indexing and search facts relevant to answering questions. els of difficulty: a) Task 1 presents the model with all relevant facts and requires only the construction of the entailment tree; b) Task 2 requires the model to perform the same task, but with 15 to 25 distrac- tors