story set in a different universe. One concern with these tasks is the entanglement of ‘tem- poral and spatial order” with causality in the sense that the temporal or spatial order implies the causal relationship. The fact that LLMs are performing well on this task may not be surprising: if event B happens after event A, one may expect LLMs to predict ‘A implies B’ option, even if the relation is just correlative. This is a common problem across many of these datasets, but is not necessarily alleviated just by in- creasing the length of the description. The FCR task (Yang et al. 2022) presents a scaling of complexity on multiple stages, where causal relations are categorized as “enable, prevent and cause”. Three tasks are embedded within it: 1) a binary classification task to pre- dict whether a given text sequence contains a causal re- lation; 2) a joint event extraction and fine-grained causal- ity task for identifying text chunks describing the cause and effect, respectively, and which fine-grained causality category it belongs to, and 3) a question-answering task with more challenging “why-questions” and “what-if ques- tions”. Though some of these questions can likely still be answered by knowledge retrieval, 2) and 3) move beyond simple causal relation identification, demonstrating the idea that a causally-capable LLM should be able to perform at multiple levels of the causal hierarchy. Simplifications in causal discovery. Another approach to eliciting higher-level causal reasoning builds upon the use of directed acyclic graph (DAG) models. Some tasks even at- tempt to evaluate the ability of LLMs to return entire causal graphs, as in Causal Discovery (Causal Parrots)(Zeˇcevi´c et al. 2023) and Corr2Cause(Jin et al. 2023), the Neuropathic pain dataset (Tu, Ma, and Zhang 2023), and the Arctic sea ice dataset (Kıcıman et al. 2023). The main idea behind Corr2Cause and CLadder is causal graph discovery, aiming at inferring the graph struc- ture from a series of conditional independence statements. Corr2Cause technically meets all three ladders in the “ladder of causation”, dealing with interventions and counterfactuals as part of the algebraic graph structure. However, its use of letters as the basic ‘algebra’ is very different to a reasonable real-world interpretation: one may argue that humans would also fail to find causal relationships based purely on condi- tional independence statements between even just a handful of variables without knowledge about the underlying algo- rithm. CLadder rectifies these concerns by shuffling through real-world ‘stories’ and replacing the node letters with rele- vant nouns. To the best of our knowledge, CLadder is per- haps the most advanced causal benchmark available cur- rently, as it holistically tests the LLM’s ability to synthesize several different components into a complex causal model, and then interprets the effects of interventions or changes within that model. However, it is possible that CLadder’s tasks still allow the LLM to use its pre-existing knowledge to return a causal direction, potentially with this causal di- rection already being included in the training set. While hu- mans may not