Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models Yujia Zhou School of Information Renmin University of China Beijing, China zhouyujia@ruc.edu.cn Zheng Liu* Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence Beijing, China zhengliu1026@gmail.com Jiajie Jin Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence Renmin University of China Beijing, China jinjiajie@ruc.edu.cn Jian-Yun Nie University de Montreal Quebec, Canada nie@iro.umontreal.ca Zhicheng Dou* Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence Renmin University of China Beijing, China dou@ruc.edu.cn ABSTRACT Retrieval-augmented generation have become central in natural language processing due to their efficacy in generating factual con- tent. While traditional methods employ single-time retrieval, more recent approaches have shifted towards multi-time retrieval for multi-hop reasoning tasks. However, these strategies are bound by predefined reasoning steps, potentially leading to inaccuracies in response generation. This paper introduces MetaRAG, an approach that combines the retrieval-augmented generation process with metacognition. Drawing from cognitive psychology, metacognition allows an entity to self-reflect and critically evaluate its cogni- tive processes. By integrating this, MetaRAG enables the model to monitor, evaluate, and plan its response strategies, enhancing its introspective reasoning abilities. Through a three-step metacog- nitive regulation pipeline, the model can identify inadequacies in initial cognitive responses and fixes them. Empirical evaluations show that MetaRAG significantly outperforms existing methods. CCS CONCEPTS • Information systems →Question answering. KEYWORDS Retrieval-Augmented Generation, LLMs, Metacognition ACM Reference Format: Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024. Metacognitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW ’24), May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 3589334.3645481 ∗Zheng Liu and Zhicheng Dou are corresponding authors. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. WWW ’24, May 13–17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0171-9/24/05...$15.00 https://doi.org/10.1145/3589334.3645481 1 INTRODUCTION Recently, large language models (LLMs) have emerged as a foun- dational component in various natural language processing tasks, attributed to their remarkable capability to comprehend and gen- erate human-like language [24]. While these models are endowed with vast repositories of knowledge learned during training, they exhibit the propensity to generate hallucinated content [22, 41]. To address this issue, researchers have introduced the idea of integrat- ing retrieval systems into LLMs. By doing so, LLMs can look up relevance information from external knowledge bases, ensuring a more reliable and precise content generation. Historically, retrieval-augmented language models [9–11, 20] employed single-time retrieval, extracting knowledge once based on an initial query. This method, while effective for tasks with straightforward informational needs, falls short when