clear examples and on adver- sarial examples constructed according to a simple prompt injection attack where we tell the model to answer the questions instead of translating them. We found inverse scaling under certain model se- ries and zero-shot scenarios. In addition to the effect from the model size, we also found that performance severely deteriorates when the prompt is written in English, indicating inverse scaling in the dimension of the amount of training data. To our knowledge, this is the first work to inves- tigate non-monotonic scaling and prompt injection attacks in a multi-lingual setting. Limitations Number of model families Due to limited time, budget and computational resources available, and because the limited number of publicly available LLMs that exhibit strong multilingual capabilities, our research doesn’t include many model series. Future work on this topic should include more model families, such as Antropic Claude, GPT- 3.5-turbo and GPT-4. Number of distractors Our experiment only con- siders a single prompt injection attack setting and uses a question-answering task as the distracting prompt. The study of scaling behavior in prompt- based machine translation can go well beyond this scope. For instance, one could use the counter- factual data set (Meng et al., 2023) to construct sentences containing counterfactual knowledge e.g. "The Eiffel Tower is located in Berlin." As hypoth- esized previously, since larger language models store more world knowledge and rely more on the world knowledge to provide output, in an inverse scaling scenario, we would expect that larger mod- els tend to translate the counterfactual piece of information e.g. "Berlin" in our example instead of the factual knowledge i.e. "Paris". In addition, more language pairs can be tested, to provide more solid proof for our claim that the language where the distraction adversarial prompt is written causes different model performances. Coarse-grained evaluation strategy We only use the question mark to determine if the model output is successful. Although we do selectively check the translation output manually to ensure the validity of our evaluation strategy, the model might still output a failed translation that still ends with question marks. Ethics Statement In this work, we investigate the vulnerability of LLMs to Prompt Injection Attacks. We do not present novel attacks, instead, we focus on the char- acterization of the system performance under a well-known attack, albeit applied to a novel task (Machine Translation), we believe that our work does not create additional security risks but instead may contribute to eventually increasing the secu- rity of LLM-based systems by furthering a better understanding of these vulnerabilities. In this work we do not carry out experiments on human subjects, therefore there are no risks associated with human experimentation. Acknowledgements Antonio Valerio Miceli-Barone was supported by a grant from the UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund to the UKRI Research Node on Trustworthy Au- tonomous Systems Governance and Regulation (EP/V026607/1, 2020-2024). Some of the experiments in this research were performed using the Baskerville Tier 2 HPC ser- vice 5. Baskerville was funded by the EPSRC and