across vari- ous metrics and scenarios. BIG-Bench (Srivastava et al., 2023) introduced a large-scale evaluation with 214 tasks, including low-resource languages. GPT2.5 (Radford et al., 2019), ChatGPT (Ope- nAI, 2023), and BLOOM (Scao et al., 2022), were recently evaluated by Bang et al. (2023); Ahuja et al. (2023); Hendy et al. (2023); Khondaker et al. (2023). Large speech models such as Whisper (Radford et al., 2023) and Universal Speech Model (USM) (Zhang et al., 2023) were also explored for speech recognition and translation tasks. Initiatives such as SUPERB (Yang et al., 2021) were intro- duced to support benchmarking tools and leader- boards for several speech-related tasks. Bubeck et al. (2023) explored GPT-4’s capabilities to deter- mine if it surpasses mere memorization, possessing arXiv:2305.14982v2 [cs.CL] 5 Feb 2024 a profound and adaptable comprehension of con- cepts, skills, and domains. Their results indicate that GPT-4 demonstrates a higher level of general intelligence compared to its predecessors. LAraBench study fulfills an important objective of assessing the LLMs capabilities for supporting Arabic language processing tasks, for Modern Stan- dard Arabic (MSA) and dialectal Arabic (DA), at the same level of depth and breadth as for English tasks. Our evaluation involves 61 publicly available datasets and 98 test setups used to perform and eval- uate language processing tasks in both MSA and dialectal Arabic across various genres (e.g., news articles, tweets, meetings, telephony, and broad- cast content). Our evaluation focuses on assessing the capabilities of GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, Jais-13b- chat (Sengupta et al., 2023)2 and BLOOMZ (176B) for NLP tasks, and of Whisper (Large, 1.55B) and USM (2B) for Speech processing, in both zero and few-shot settings. We investigate: (i) can LLMs effectively perform Arabic NLP and Speech pro- cessing tasks without prior task-specific knowledge (zero-shot)? (ii) how does performance vary across tasks with different complexities in zero- and few- shot settings? (iii) how do LLMs compare to cur- rent SOTA models, and are open LLMs as effec- tive as the commercially available (closed) mod- els? Our investigation reveals unique insights about LLMs’ performance on Arabic NLP and Speech tasks: A. Zero-shot Multi-task Performer. GPT-4 out- performs other models in majority of the NLP tasks (see Figure 1). However, a large performance gap between GPT-4 and SOTA models remains due to the higher quality SOTA models. For speech tasks, USM outperforms all the Whisper variants and performs comparably with SOTA. B. Few-shot and SOTA. GPT-4 reduces the per- formance gap with SOTA in the few-shot (only 3-shots) setting (see Figure 1). This significant per- formance gain is noticed for almost all tasks, par- ticularly for more complex semantic and question- answering tasks compared to syntactic and segmen- tation tasks. Similarly, Whisper models exhibit promising results in speech recognition with just 2 hours of speech examples in few-shot finetuning. Open models (BLOOMZ and Whisper) performed poorly w.r.t. to their commercially available coun- terparts. However, fine-tuning with more instruc- 2We benchmarked Jais model on seven datasets using a zero-shot setting. tions may help these open models to achieve