= 512, feed forward upwards projection size dff = 2048, and number of layers L = 6) (Figure 3). To apply this initializa- tion to our search space, we must determine how to divide the Transformer program into subprograms. To do this, we divide along the lines of the machine learning concepts that constitute it. For instance, we create one subprogram each for self-attention, ReLU and layer norm, using commonly used implementations (see Appendix A.5 for the complete list). We call this method conceptual initialization because it introduces a bias to the search through initialization, while leaving the search space for evolution and the action space for mutations open-ended. This contrasts the large amount of previous works that introduce bias through the search space. Although some works have also explored searching spaces that are open-ended like ours on miniature tasks [35], we demonstrate that our techniques can scale to full sized deep learning regimes (see Section 4). 3 Primer Primer: We name the discovered model Primer, which stands for PRIMitives searched transformER (See Appendix Figure 23 for the full program). Primer shows signiﬁcant improvement when retrained on the search task, requiring less than half the compute of Transformer to reach the same quality (Figure 6). In Section 4, we additionally show that Primer makes equally large gains when transferred to other codebases, training regimes, datasets, and downstream one-shot tasks. Primer-EZ: A core motivation of this work is to develop simple techniques that can be easily adopted by language modeling practitioners. To accomplish this, we perform ablation tests across two 4 codebases (T5 [5] and Tensor2Tensor [25]) and determine which Primer modiﬁcations are generally useful (Appendix Figure 26). The two that produce the most robust improvements are squaring feed forward ReLUs and adding depthwise convolution to attention multi-head projections (Figure 4). We refer to a Transformer with just these two easy modiﬁcations as Primer-EZ; this is our recommended starting point for language modeling practitioners interested in using Primer. We now explain these modiﬁcations and then measure their empirical effectiveness. Input Q Head Projection K Head Projection V Head Projection Spatial D-Conv 3x1 Spatial D-Conv 3x1 Spatial D-Conv 3x1 Multi-Head Self-Attention Output Multi-DConv-Head Attention (MDHA) Input Square Output ReLU Squared ReLU in Feed Forward Block Downwards Proj Upwards Proj X Num Heads MDHA Projection Pseudo-code # Use to create each K, Q, and V head of size ‘hs’. def mdha_projection(x, hs): # Create head. x = proj(x, head_size=hs, axis="channel") # Apply D−Conv to head. x = d_conv(x, width=3, head_size=hs, axis="spatial", mask="causal") return x Figure 4: The two main modiﬁcations that give Primer most of its gains: depthwise convolution added to attention multi-head projections and squared ReLU activations. These modiﬁcations are easy to implement and transfer well across codebases. We call the model with just these two modiﬁcations Primer-EZ. Blue indicates portions of the original Transformer and red signiﬁes one of our proposed modiﬁcations. Squared ReLU: The most effective modiﬁcation is the improvement from a ReLU activation to a squared ReLU activation in