text tokens or treating visual and textual tokens equally without explicitly identifying the informative visual tokens. Moreover, eviction-based methods re- quire encoding all visual tokens during the prefilling stage, which becomes inefficient when handling long visual sequences. Recently, FastV (Chen et al., 2025) has leveraged attention patterns in LLMs to prune visual tokens. However, it is not specifically tailored for video understanding and does not adequately address the reduction of video inputs. †Corresponding author. 1 arXiv:2412.16117v1 [cs.CV] 20 Dec 2024 (a) Overall idea of PruneVid Framework. (c) Attention Visualization (b) Ilustration of static and dynamic regions. Layer 30 Layer 20 Layer 10 Layer 5 Video What happened after the person took the phone? Vision Encoder Word Embedding LLM … Attention Layer … Question … Temporal Merging of Static Tokens Spatial Merging Merged Static Tokens Dynamic Tokens … … Attention-based Token Selection … Input Regions Static Regions Dynamic Regions … … … … … Figure 1: (a) PruneVid first identifies the static regions in the video that exhibit minimal variation, thereby compressing the redundancy of static tokens along the temporal dimension. It then further reduces spatial redundancy through compression in the spatial dimension. Subsequently, within the LLM, PruneVid utilizes question-to-visual attention scores to guide the selection of relevant visual tokens. (b) Static regions refer to areas with minimal change, while dynamic regions exhibit motion. Therefore, static regions can be compressed together along the temporal dimension. (c) Visualization of how attention evolves from shallow to deep layers (32 layers in total). The question tokens attend to semantically related visual regions (e.g., the hands and window) throughout different layers. Building on the analysis presented above, we identify three essential criteria that an optimal pruning method for multi-modal video understanding ought to meet: (1) It should ideally be training-free, facilitating smooth integration with readily available models while reducing the need for extensive retraining or fine-tuning. (2) Inherent video redundancy needs to be reduced to save computations on tokens with similar representations along both spatial and temporal dimensions. (3) It is crucial to retain visual tokens specifically relevant to the given questions. This ensures the model maintains high performance while efficient and mitigates the risk of hallucinations when LLMs lack pertinent information (Huang et al., 2024). To achieve our objectives, we present PruneVid, a training-free approach for pruning video tokens to achieve efficient video understanding. As shown in Fig. 1 (a), our method initially identifies static regions with minimal variation due to motion or camera movements, which could be inter- preted as background (illustrated in Fig. 1 (b)). We merge these static tokens along the temporal dimension to reduce the computational burden from redundant temporal data. Next, we employ a clustering technique (Du et al., 2016) to merge similar spatial tokens for both static and dynamic regions. In the subsequent step within the LLM, we use attention scores between the question and video tokens in an intermediate layer to discern and preserve the discriminative visual tokens essen- tial for answering the question, while pruning irrelevant