graph knowledge bases incorporate ontologies and semantic schemas, providing formal definitions for concepts and their interrelationships within a domain. While traditional retrieval methods are like tourists asking random pedestrians for directions, GraphRAG is the mayor who knows every nook and cranny of the city. It doesn’t just look at individual buildings (or pieces of information); it sees the entire cityscape, considering the intricate network of streets, neighborhoods, and communities. This bird’s-eye view allows GraphRAG to navigate these streets with the efficiency of a seasoned cab driver who knows all the shortcuts. Here is a vivid example: Let’s consider GraphRAG to be a sophisticated urban planning and information retrieval system for the knowledge base aka city. This system operates in two main phases: planning and retrieval. In the planning phase, the city planners (LLMs) first divide the urban landscape (source documents) into manageable districts (concepts). They then survey each district, identifying key landmarks and connections (element instances) - think of this as mapping out important buildings, parks, and the roads connecting them. These individual elements are then summarized into concise descriptions (element summaries), like creating brief profiles of each neighborhood landmark. Next, using advanced urban analysis tools (community detection algorithms like Leiden), the planners group these elements into natural communities, much like identifying distinct neigh- borhoods or boroughs within the city. Finally, they craft 25 detailed ”neighborhood reports” (community summaries) for each of these communities, providing a rich, multi-layered guidebook to the entire city. This indexing phase creates a comprehensive, hierarchical understanding of the urban landscape, from individual buildings to entire districts. After the planning, we obtain a high-quality graph knowl- edge base. Then, when it comes to retrieval, GraphRAG shines in handling citywide inquiries. Instead of dispatching surveyors to random locations, it consults the pre-prepared neighborhood reports. Each community contributes its local perspective to the broader question, like local town halls holding simultaneous meetings (community summaries to community answers). These local insights are then synthesized into a comprehensive city report (global answer), much like an urban planner combining feedback from various boroughs to understand citywide trends. This approach proved particularly effective for ”global” questions about the entire urban landscape, outperforming traditional methods in both the breadth and diversity of insights offered. 2) Knowledge Integration in GraphRAG: The knowledge integration allows the users to inject domain-specific knowledge into LLMs. When integrating, the following aspects need to be considered for the design: Computational Overhead Incorporating retrieved text into the input consumes a portion of the available input length. The computational overhead may increase further due to the complexity of handling graph-structured data from graph- retrieved information. GraphRAG combines well-built graphs with LLMs, which requires additional processing to retrieve and manage graph elements such as nodes, triples, and paths. This added complexity can lead to much higher costs. Given that prompt processing time scales quadratically with the length of the prompt, large retrieved texts can significantly amplify the computational overhead for LLMs, especially in downstream applications like billion-scale recommender systems [233], [234]. To