Taking the International English Language Testing System(IELTS), CET 6 exam results, and their GPA in English courses into account, we recruited 16, 10 and 35 native Chinese speakers as reviewers and respondents. G.2. Instructions Given to Scenario Providers Before requiring the individual to complete the following tasks, we asked the respondents whether they agreed to the anonymisation of their reviews for scientific research and subsequent publication. Only if the respondents gave their consent were they given the corpus to review. And we promised not to publish each individual’s MBTI results and specific practical scenario cases. Then, we investigated each person’s MBTI type and ensured that we ultimately recruited 16 individuals with distinct MBTI types. After this, we required the reviewers to accomplish the following tasks： Please provide a practical scenario case for every statement in the personality knowledge questionnaire. Each scenario case comprises situations drawn from your own lives, along with two completely contrasting actions: Action A and Action B. Action A fully aligns with the statement, while Action B completely contradicts it. The content of Action A and Action B need to be kept basically the same length. G.3. Instructions Given to Reviewers We require the reviewers to accomplish the following tasks： 11 Is Self-knowledge and Action Consistent or Not: Investigating Large Language Model’s Personality • Please determine whether the practical scenario case is consistent with its corresponding personality knowledge statement. If yes, rate 1. If not, rate 0. • If you rate 0 for all of the practical scenario cases of a personality knowledge statement, please offer suggestions to improve the practical scenario design. It would be better if an example could be provided. G.4. Instructions Given to Respondents Before answering the questionnaires, we did not tell the respondents what kind of questionnaires they would be answering or how the questions were related to each other. In addition to this, we asked the respondents whether they agreed to the anonymisation of their answers for scientific research and subsequent publication. Only if the respondents gave their consent were they given the questionnaires to answer. In all experiments that appeared in our research, human respondents received the exact same prompts that LLM received. The difference is that in the case of experiments with multiple prompts with similar meanings, LLM responded multiple times by prompt type, while human subjects read all the prompts and responded only once. 12