the headings that need contextual hints from entities. We use the knowledge graph G to construct HolE embeddings for the en- tities and relations. HolE embeddings have been shown to perform the best at entity link prediction by capturing rich interactions via circular correla- tion [23]. First, we collect all entity mentions in the paragraph being ranked. We collect entities from links that appear in Wikipedia paragraphs that tar- get other articles. However, because Wikipedia guidelines suggest only linking an entity on its ﬁrst occurrence in an article 4, we also explore using an en- tity extractor to ﬁnd entity mentions (DBPedia Spotlight [5]). For each entity mention, we calculate the entity similarity score, given the current query topic entity and the current heading label. We include the top nentscores from the 4 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Linking Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 13 Table 3 Dataset characteristics from the v1.5 data release, including counts of automatic (Auto.) and Manual (Man.) relevance judgments. Relevance Dataset Articles Queries Auto. Man. train.fold1-2 (train) 114,387 873,746 2.2M - test200 (validation) 198 1,860 4.7k - benchmarkY1test (test) 133 2,125 5.8k 30k paragraph during the combination phase of the model (see Figure 3d). This is similar to how some models perform k-max pooling of query term results. This approach diﬀers from contextual vectors because these signals refer to the entire query-document combination, and not speciﬁc query terms. 3.4 Implementation details We apply our methods for altering the generalized interaction-focused neural ranking model to the PACRR model [12]. This model has been demonstrated to be a strong approach for ad-hoc retrieval. To understand how our methods are integrated into the system, we provide a short description of the model architecture (see [12] for full details). For the matching phase, PACRR cal- culates a Q × d similarity matrix between query and document terms using word embedding similarity scores. It then performs square convolutional ﬁlters of multiple sizes (e.g., 2 × 2, 3 × 3, etc.) over the resulting similarity matrix. The result of these ﬁlters are max-pooled. Then, scores across query terms are k-max pooled (k = 2) to get the top scores for each query term. Here, the query term results are concatenated with IDF scores for each term. Finally, the results are combined using a simple dense combination layer to produce a ﬁnal query-document relevance score. We include contextual vectors after the query term pooling. The vectors are simply concatenated alongside the IDF vector. For heading independence, we split out the work up through the query term pooling. We add an additional dense layer here to further consolidate heading position information before the ﬁnal combination phase. We include knowledge graph embedding scores in the combination phase, alongside the matching scores. 4 Experiment In this section, we describe our primary experiment using the approaches de- scribed in Section 3 and present our results using the CAR dataset. 14 Sean MacAvaney et al. Table 4 Manual relevance judgment counts and occurrence frequencies for bench- markY1test. Relevance Label Count