to answer input questions. For music-domain specific retrieval, we introduce MusWikiDB, which, to our knowledge, is the first com- prehensively curated vector database designed specifically for music-related content. We explore various design choices for optimizing retrieval performance, including embedding models and chunking strategies. By incorpo- rating this retrieval process, MusT-RAG enables LLMs to efficiently generate contextually relevant responses, draw- ing on specialized music knowledge to enhance perfor- mance on music-related tasks, all without requiring addi- tional training. Furthermore, we extend the application of RAG beyond inference by incorporating contextual infor- mation during the fine-tuning process. Our empirical anal- ysis reveals that this context-aware training enhances the model’s contextual understanding capabilities, defined as the ability to generate coherent and relevant text within a specific context [5], outperforming conventional fine- tuning approaches. MusT-RAG demonstrated the effectiveness of RAG across all scenarios including in-domain and out-of- domain settings, as well as both fine-tuning and inference stages. By retrieving relevant context information from the database, MusT-RAG effectively addresses the music domain adaptation problem. Our contributions are as fol- lows: i) We propose the MusT-RAG framework, which leverages RAG to retrieve relevant context from a music- specific database for answer generation. ii) We create MusWikiDB, the first comprehensive music-specific vec- tor database for RAG. iii) We demonstrate that RAG-style fine-tuning can resolve the issue of decreased contextual understanding performance with conventional fine-tuning. arXiv:2507.23334v2 [cs.CL] 8 Dec 2025 Figure 1: Overview of our MusT-RAG framework. The retriever searches for relevant information in MusWikiDB based on similarity for music-related queries, and augments the generator’s prompt with this information to generate an answer. iv) We introduce ArtistMus, a benchmark designed to evaluate artist-related questions in text-only MQA tasks, addressing a gap in existing evaluations. 2. MUSIC QUESTION ANSWERING Question Answering (QA) refers to the task of providing an appropriate answer to a given question, which is one of the Information Retrieval (IR) tasks [6]. The task is typically framed as retrieving relevant information from a collection of documents or knowledge sources to answer fact-based questions. Open-domain QA involves answer- ing questions from a vast and varied set of topics using a large collection of general knowledge documents [7, 8]. In contrast, domain-specific QA targets specialized fields such as medicine [9], law [10], or music [11–14], where both the document set and the questions are confined to that domain. In this work, we define the MQA task as the problem of providing accurate and relevant answers to music-related questions by leveraging domain-specific musical knowledge. Several recent studies have introduced music-related benchmarks to evaluate LLM performance. MuChoMu- sic [11] features 1,187 audio-based multiple-choice ques- tions that assess both musical knowledge and reasoning capabilities. MusicTheoryBench [12] contains 372 expert- validated questions designed to evaluate advanced music knowledge and reasoning skills. TrustMus [13] comprises 400 questions across four domains—People, Instruments and Technology, Genres, Forms, and Theory, and Culture and History—all derived from The Grove Dictionary On- line [15]. ZIQI-Eval [14] presents a comprehensive evalu- ation framework consisting of 14,000 comprehension tasks that