topic introduces new elements of wolf, peo- ple, eyes, and a mother. These keywords might suggest narratives that introduce new characters and themes. Overall, these topics provide insight into the underlying themes present in the older 122 stories in the data set. The topics revolve around narratives involving a small character, time, good- ness, and various other elements such as princes, nights, water, girls, and wolves. Comparatively, the topics of the generated sto- ries obtained from OPT, LLaMA, and Alpaca show minor differences. The first topic suggests a nar- rative that involves characters like kings, mothers, princes, and princesses. It also mentions elements of time, goodness, greatness, and shadow. The prince, princess, and shadow hint at the fairy tale or fantasy theme. The second topic shares similari- ties with the previous topic, with a focus on little, prince, time, goodness, and greatness, but it also introduces new elements like eyes, houses, heads, and the color white. These additions suggest differ- ent scenes, perhaps removed from the monarchy or castle theme, and suggest a different narrative. The third topic seems to center around family dynamics, with mentions of mothers, fathers, and children. It also includes keywords relating to time, goodness, night, and poverty. This suggests a change in the narrative away from the fantasy-focused topic. The last topic includes keywords like little, time, and goodness. It includes elements of fathers, eyes, and houses. The presence of ’long’ and ’night’ suggests a different tone or atmosphere within the narrative. These general results show remarkable similarity Figure 4: Comparison of topics in generated children’s stories and actual children’s stories. The plot shows that the most shared topics (x:2, y:2) include ’white’, ’world’, ’great’, ’water’, ’black’, ’house’, ’little’, ’king’, ’called’, and ’good’. The least shared topics (x:1, y:1) include ’heart’, ’head’, ’poor’, ’house’, ’looking’, ’chil- dren’, ’good’, ’young’, ’lady’, and ’night’. with the data set on which the LLMs were trained. The topics revolve around narratives involving char- acters such as kings, princes, mothers, fathers, and children. The topics also touched upon topics of time, goodness, greatness, poverty, and setting ele- ments of houses, nights, and the color white. As with toxic content testing, we ran topic mod- eling for a small number (10) of modern stories in order to compare the general topics that are cur- rently aimed at children. The first topic includes keywords related to spatial orientation (right, in- side, door, left), objects (ream, head, frog), time, and actions (started). The keyword ‘eyes’ may sug- gest a focus on visual perception or observation. The second topic emphasizes time, objects (ream, door), spacial orientation (right, inside), a frog, a head, fairies, and ‘need’. The presence of fairies introduces a fantastical or imaginative element to the topic. The third topic revolves around time, spacial orientation (right, inside, door), physical attributes (head, eyes, long, hand), and a frog. The inclusion of ‘long’ might suggest a temporal or duration-related aspect. The last topic highlights time, spatial orientation (right, inside, door), ob- jects (ream, frog), physical