Fu, Alan Ritter, and Wenhu Chen. 2023. Uniir: Training and benchmarking universal multimodal information retrievers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17136. Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits rea- soning in large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–24837. Michihiro Yasunaga, Armen Aghajanyan, Weijia Shi, Rich James, Jure Leskovec, Percy Liang, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Wen-tau Yih. 2022. Retrieval- augmented multimodal language modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.12561. Jiahui Yu, Yuanzhong Xu, Jing Yu Koh, Thang Lu- ong, Gunjan Baid, Zirui Wang, Vijay Vasudevan, Alexander Ku, Yinfei Yang, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Ben Hutchinson, Wei Han, Zarana Parekh, Xin Li, Han Zhang, Jason Baldridge, and Yonghui Wu. 2022. Scaling autoregressive models for content-rich text-to-image generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.10789. Lili Yu, Bowen Shi, Ramakanth Pasunuru, Benjamin Muller, Olga Golovneva, Tianlu Wang, Arun Babu, Binh Tang, Brian Karrer, Shelly Sheynin, et al. 2023. Scaling autoregressive multi-modal models: Pretraining and instruction tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.02591. Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. 2023. Sigmoid loss for language image pre-training. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 11975–11986. Duzhen Zhang, Yahan Yu, Chenxing Li, Jiahua Dong, Dan Su, Chenhui Chu, and Dong Yu. 2024. Mm- llms: Recent advances in multimodal large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.13601. Appendix A Prompt Templates This section shows the generic zero-shot and model- specific few-shot prompt templates for the caption generation task. You are an intelligent helpful assistant AI that is an expert in generating captions for provided images. I have provided you an image. Generate the caption for this image based on your understanding of the image. Only respond with the caption; do not say any other words or explain. Figure 2: Zero-shot prompting for caption generation. {{merged images}} You are an intelligent helpful assistant AI that is an expert in generating captions for provided images. I have provided you {image_num} images. The following {caption_num} captions correspond to the first {caption_num} images. {{captions}} Generate the caption for the last remaining image based on your understanding of the last image and provided image-caption examples. Only respond with the caption; do not say any other words or explain. Figure 3: Few-shot prompting for caption generation with LlaVA. I have provided you {num} image(s) and their corresponding caption(s) as example(s) and one last image without a caption. Generate the caption for the last remaining image based on your understanding of the last image and provided image-caption examples. Only respond with the caption string; do not say any other words or explain. {{image-caption-pairs}} Figure 4: Few-shot prompting for caption generation with Gemini-Pro. You are an intelligent helpful assistant AI that is an expert in generating captions for provided images. {{image-caption-pairs}} I have provided you {num} image(s) and their corresponding caption(s) as example(s) and one last image without a caption. Generate the caption for the last remaining image based on your understanding of the last image and provided image-caption examples. Only respond with the