are incomplete or incorrect for the question, LLMs need to combine the knowledge within model parameters to verify the retrieved texts, correct the wrong knowledge, and complete the missing knowledge. For the third scenario that retrieved texts are relevant but do not have any answer, LLMs need to find the knowledge within model parameters based on relevant context to generate correct answers. We mix the above three tasks to train INFO-RAG unsupervisedly. Main contributions of this paper are as follows: (1) We introduce a novel perspective to reassess the role of LLMs in the RAG system that considers LLMs as “Information Refiner” that can produce positive information gain in RAG scenarios. (2) We propose an unsupervised training method named INFO-RAG that enables LLMs to perform information refinement in RAG. INFO-RAG is low-cost and general for various RAG tasks. (3) Extensive experiments show INFO-RAG en- hances the zero-shot RAG of LLaMA2 across Question Answering, Slot-Filling, Language Mod- eling, Dialog, and Code Generation. INFO-RAG also shows advantages in in-context learning and robustness of RAG. Code is released at https: //github.com/xsc1234/INFO-RAG/. 2 Related Work Retrieval Augmented Generation Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) aims to provide addi- tional knowledge for language models by retrieving information from external databases (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Borgeaud et al., 2022; Izac- ard et al., 2022). RAG makes the text generated by LLM more accurate and credible, and is widely used in Open-domain QA (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Trivedi et al., 2022a), dialogue (Cai et al., 2018, 2019) and Code Generation (Parvez et al., 2021). Recently, RAG has also been widely applied in LLMs (Peng et al., 2023; Shi et al., 2023; Ren et al., 2023). The form of RAG in LLMs is using the retrieved texts as contexts (Ram et al., 2023). Some studies have noted that noise in retrieved texts will interfere with the performance of the lan- guage model or even mislead it (Xu et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2024). These works try to solve this problem from the interactive framework between IR and LM, while our work points out a more essential view. That is, previous studies on RAG do not define the role of LLMs in RAG clearly. Our paper introduces a novel perspective to reassess the role of LLMs in RAG that considers LLMs as “Information Re- finer”. Unsupervised Learning of RAG Unsupervised learning of RAG can be divided into the training of retrievers and language models. As for retriev- ers, REALM (Guu et al., 2020) proposes using masked language modeling to pre-train a knowl- edge retriever. REPLUG (Shi et al., 2023) trains the retriever according to the feedback from black-box LM. As for language models, RETRO (Borgeaud et al., 2022) improves language models by retriev- ing tokens. Atlas proposes pretext tasks to jointly train the retriever and language model. However, these two methods focus on the model of encoder- decoder architecture, which is inconsistent with the current mainstream LLMs based