our proposed post-training ex- pert pruning method. We conduct expert pruning in a layer-wise manner. Specifically, the pruning method contains two steps as follows. Firstly, we set up a small calibration dataset, then perform inference on the original MoE model with all experts over the dataset, and cache the input- output token pairs of each MoE layer. We use samples from the pre-training dataset C4 (Raffel et al., 2019) as calibration data, since pre-training datasets are often more comprehensive and not dominated by knowledge specific to any particular domain (Sun et al., 2023). Secondly, after caching input-output pairs for each MoE layer, we enumerate expert combina- tions based on the preset parameter r, denoting the number of preserved experts. Assume the func- tion of the MoE layer at layer l is F(·), with the cached input represented by x. During each enu- meration, we maintain r experts and eliminate the remaining experts along with their associated rout- ing weights. Subsequently, we employ the pruned MoE layer, denoted as F′(·, C), to recalculate the corresponding output, where C represents a subset containing r experts selected from the original n experts. Inspired by channel pruning in CNNs (He et al., 2017), the Frobenius norm of the difference between cached output F(x) and the output of pruned layer F′(x, C) is used to quantify the dis- crepancy between the model before and after expert pruning, and we denote it as reconstruction loss. The expert subset corresponding to the minimum reconstruction loss is retained. The n −r experts left are considered to contribute least to the origi- nal MoE model and are thus discarded. The expert pruning process in layer l can be formulated as: min C ∥F′(x, C) −F(x)∥F (3) s.t. C ⊆{expert0, . . . , expertn−1}, |C| = r. We heuristically search for expert subset C with the lowest reconstruction loss in each layer separately and obtain an MoE model with r experts by the concatenation of each pruned layer. After remov- ing the insignificant experts, the pruned model can be easily loaded using existing packages (e.g., Hug- gingface Transformers (Wolf et al., 2020)) with just a change of the model configuration. Especially, with 2 experts pruned, the deployment budget is re- duced to a single 80G GPU for loading the Mixtral 8x7B (Instruct) model with bf16 data type. Task-specific Expert Pruning for Domain- specific Tasks. Previous research on post-training pruning for LLMs (Sun et al., 2023; Frantar and Alistarh, 2023) typically considers the performance over general tasks. For the first time, in our work, we investigate the task-specific post-training pruning for MoE LLMs. Our above-proposed expert pruning strategy is adept at conserving the knowledge encapsulated by the experts of an MoE model for general tasks. However, as a pre-training dataset, C4 spans a wide array of do- mains, posing challenges when pruning experts for domain-specific tasks (e.g., models tailored for mathematics (Yu et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024)). We evaluate the 5-shot performance of the C4 pruned MoE LLM