the image could be cognized to satire “the democrat party” in the text; and in terms of Figure 3(c), the “goat humper” and “pigs” in the text could be associated with the attacks to “a Muslim man” recognized in the image. 2) Furthermore, our model learns to cognize the in- terplay (in pink) of multimodal information with advanced reasoning. Benefitting from the rich mul- timodal understanding of the memes, the perpet- uates harmful stereotypes could be reasoned over the context to the target like “who affected by the pandemic” in Figure 3(a), “the democrat party” in Figure 3(b), and “the Muslim” in Figure 3(c). In this way, the rich correlation beneath the surface of the meme text and image could be excavated to fa- cilitate harmfulness inference with better reasoning knowledge by harnessing advanced LLMs. Such readable pieces of rationales are also potentially valuable for aiding human checkers to verify the final answer predicted by our model. 4.5 Error Analysis To better understand the behavior of our model and facilitate future studies, we conduct an error analysis on the wrongly predicted memes by our proposed framework. We found that the major er- ror exists in that our framework still cannot fully recognize the images that require rich background knowledge though we exploited the advanced cross- attention mechanism by incorporating visual fea- tures into the language model. Figure 4 shows two examples of memes wrongly classified by MR.HARM. For the harmful meme in Figure 4(a), the phrase “and for my next class project!” suggests that the image is being used for an academic or ed- ucational purpose, which can be seen as glorifying Intermediate Reasoning: based on the image and text presented in the meme, it appears to be a harmless and relatable scenario. the image shows a group of women in traditional dress walking on a beach, which is a common and harmless activity. the text, "and for my next class project," seems to be a playful and lighthearted comment about the topic of the class project. there is no indication of any harmful or offensive content in the image or text. Meme text: and for my next class project! Intermediate Reasoning: the text in the meme contains a derogatory and offensive statement about a politician, jimmy carter, who created the department of education in 1979. the use of such language and imagery can be considered harmful and offensive to individuals who identify with the politician. additionally, the image of an older man with a funny expression on his face can be seen as promoting a negative and harmful attitude towards the politician. Meme text: in 1979 jimmy carter created the department of education since then the u.s. has gone from 1st to 17th in education (a) (b) Figure 4: Examples of wrongly predicted memes by our proposed framework with the ground truth (a) harmful and (b) harmless. or normalizing the behavior depicted in the im- age. The image features “a group of Ku Klux Klan members walking on a