harmful meme detection system (Pra- manick et al., 2021b) that takes the global and lo- cal information in two modalities of memes into account; 8) MaskPrompt: a prompt learning ap- proach (Cao et al., 2022) that converts harmful meme detection as a masked language modeling problem based on RoBERTa-large (Liu et al., 2019). We use accuracy and macro-averaged F1 score as the evaluation metrics, where the macro-averaged F1 is the more important metric owing to the im- balanced class prevalence (see Table 4), to cap- ture competitive performance beyond the majority class. While LLMs offer strong zero/few-shot perfor- mance as shown in the ‘w/o Fine-tuning Small Frozen Vision Transformer Cross Attention LM Encoder Layer Add : Parameters Frozen : Parameters Not Frozen Meme Text ... Figure 5: The details of our Multimodal Fusion module. LMs’ setting in Table 2, they are challenging to serve in practice that requires at least 350GB GPU memory using specialized infrastructure for a sin- gle 175 billion LLM. This work presents a novel paradigm to leverage the reasoning ability and rich background knowledge of LLMs for better harm- ful meme detection, but just need to fine-tune the small language model even with a smaller size than the state-of-the-art baseline. Table 6 illustrates the detailed results on the three meme datasets with dif- ferent versions of our fine-tuned backbone model. Table 7 illustrates the comparison of characteris- tics between MR.HARM and the state-of-the-art baselines like MOMENTA and MaskPrompt. D Illustration of Multimodal Fusion Figure 5 illustrates the details of our multimodal fu- sion module in the encoding phase of MR.HARM. E Discussion about One-stage Training We further investigate the one-stage training to figure out the intrinsic property of the chain-of- thought reasoning. We compare the performance with two proposed variants for the one-stage train- ing: 1) Explanation where the rationale is utilized for explaining the harmfulness inference; 2) Rea- soning where harmfulness inference is conditioned Dataset Harm-C Harm-P FHM Model Accuracy Macro-F1 Accuracy Macro-F1 Accuracy Macro-F1 Explanation 83.05 81.45 63.32 63.32 67.40 65.77 Reasoning 68.93 56.19 56.90 56.67 63.00 59.29 Table 8: Effects of the one-stage training. to the rationale. As shown in Tabel 8, the reasoning setting performs worse than the explanation setting with a large margin. We conjecture that this is be- cause the reasoning setting in the one-stage training could lead to error propagation if our small lan- guage model generates hallucinated rationales that mislead the harmfulness inference, which however could be well avoided by the two-stage training paradigm. Meanwhile, as there exists mutual in- terference between rationale generation and harm- fulness prediction, the explanation setting could give the harmfulness inference higher priority in the sequence generation so that it performs better than the reasoning setting. We argue that such a one-stage training paradigm could be improved in the future by applying a filtering mechanism, e.g., using only the effective chain-of-thought reasoning to infer the harmfulness of memes and get rid of irrelevant rationales. In summary, both settings in the one-stage training paradigm