tokens [v1, v2, ...vN] conditioned on an input text prompt [t1, t2, ...tM]. The training objective is formally defined as: arg max ϕ D X N X n=1 Pϕ(vn|t1, t2, ..., tM, v1, ...vn−1) (1) where D is the training corpus. This is the same training objective used in our FAiD method in Section 3.3. We argue that DAiD and FAiD can be extended to any image generation model that autoregressively predicts probability distributions of discrete image tokens such as LlamaGen [37], Show-o [44] and VAR [38]. Quantized Autoencoder The quantized autoencoder used in Janus-Pro consists of an encoder θenc, a decoder θdec, and a codebook Z. The encoder, a convolutional neural network, downsamples and compresses raw pixel inputs into compact patch representations. During the quantization process, each patch representation is mapped to an index in the codebook by identifying its nearest neighbor vector in the codebook. In the decoding stage, these patch indices are mapped back to their corresponding vector representations via the codebook, and the decoder, another convolutional neural network, reconstructs the image from these compact representations. In our implementation, we leverage this autoencoder to build the coupled database for Janus-pro which is detailed in Section 3.1. 3 AR-RAG: Patch-based Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation 3.1 Patch-based Retrieval Database Construction We build a patch-based retrieval database based on several large-scale, real-world image datasets, including CC12M [5] and JourneyDB [36]. Specifically, for each image I, we encode it into N 2https://huggingface.co/datasets/playgroundai/MJHQ-30K 3 Patch-based Retrieval h-hop surrounding patches AR Model Dmodel Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD) Generated Next Image Patches Dmerge ？ Generated Patches DRetrieval Figure 2: The decoding process in Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD). patches using the quantized autoencoder [37], θEnc, from Janus-Pro: V = θenc(I) ∈R √ N× √ N×d, where d is the hidden dimension, and Vij corresponds to the latent representation of the patch at position (i, j). We utilize each patch vector Vij as the value of a database entry and the representation of its h-hop surrounding patches as the key. Here, the h-hop surrounding patch representation is formed by concatenating the vectors of adjacent patches centering around (i, j) in a top-to-bottom, left-to-right order. For example, for a patch at position (i, j), the 1-hop surrounding representation spans 8 surrounding patches [V(i−1)(j−1) : V(i−1)(j) : V(i−1)(j+1) : V(i)(j−1) : V(i)(j+1) : V(i+1)(j−1) : V(i+1)(j) : V(i+1)(j+1)] where : denotes the concatenation operation of image patch features. If a patch is located at the edge of the image and lacks certain surrounding patches, we substitute each missing surrounding patch with a zero vector 0. 3.2 Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD) Given a text prompt T, Janus-Pro autoregressively predicts a sequence of image tokens [v1, v2, ...vN] where per-token probability is defined in Equation 1. As shown in Figure 2, DAiD augments this process by incorporating probability distributions from retrieved image patches. Specifically, when Janus-Pro predicts the next image token vij, we first utilize the codebook Z to convert vij’s h- hop already generated surrounding patches into patch representations. If