Unsupervised Information Refinement Training of Large Language Models for Retrieval-Augmented Generation Shicheng Xu1,2∗ Liang Pang1† Mo Yu3† Fandong Meng3 Huawei Shen1 Xueqi Cheng1 Jie Zhou3 1CAS Key Laboratory of AI Safety, Institute of Computing Technology, CAS 2University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 3Pattern Recognition Center, WeChat AI {xushicheng21s,pangliang,shenhuawei,cxq}@ict.ac.cn moyumyu@global.tencent.com {fandongmeng,withtomzhou}@tencent.com Abstract Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) en- hances large language models (LLMs) by incor- porating additional information from retrieval. However, studies have shown that LLMs still face challenges in effectively using the re- trieved information, even ignoring it or being misled by it. The key reason is that the training of LLMs does not clearly make LLMs learn how to utilize input retrieved texts with var- ied quality. In this paper, we propose a novel perspective that considers the role of LLMs in RAG as “Information Refiner”, which means that regardless of correctness, completeness, or usefulness of retrieved texts, LLMs can consis- tently integrate knowledge within the retrieved texts and model parameters to generate the texts that are more concise, accurate, and complete than the retrieved texts. To this end, we pro- pose an information refinement training method named INFO-RAG that optimizes LLMs for RAG in an unsupervised manner. INFO-RAG is low-cost and general across various tasks. Extensive experiments on zero-shot prediction of 11 datasets in diverse tasks including Ques- tion Answering, Slot-Filling, Language Mod- eling, Dialogue, and Code Generation show that INFO-RAG improves the performance of LLaMA2 by an average of 9.39% relative points. INFO-RAG also shows advantages in in-context learning and robustness of RAG. 1 Introduction Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a popu- lar framework in modern NLP systems that equips neural with retrieved information for text gener- ation like open-domain question answering, dia- logue (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020) etc. Recently, RAG has been applied to large language models (LLMs) to provide additional knowledge ∗Work done during the Tencent Rhino-bird Research Elite Program at WeChat. †Corresponding authors. What was OpenAI founded, where is its headquarters located, and what models has it developed? … (complex context) OpenAI was established in 2015, … (complex context) OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco, … (complex context) … OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. … (complex context) Scenario 1: All knowledge for the question is already in the retrieved texts … (complex context) OpenAI was established in 2021, … (complex context) The headquartered of OpenAI is in Seattle, … (complex context) … Scenario 2: Retrieved texts are incomplete or incorrect for the question. … (complex context) OpenAI is an artificial intelligence (AI) research lab focused on advancing AI capabilities while also addressing safety concerns and ethical considerations … (complex context) Scenario 3: Retrieved texts are relevant but do not have any answer. LLMs’ OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco. OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. Retrieval OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco. OpenAI has developed GPT-3, DALL-E, CLIP, etc. OpenAI was established in 2015. OpenAI is headquartered in San Francisco.