of similarity in the feature space with the intended queries. Consequently, BadRAG does not rely on large ℓ2-norms to achieve effective retrieval, thereby bypassing this defense strategy. As the Figure 6 (a) shows, the adversarial passage generated by BadRAG cannot be well distinguished from the clean passage. Fluency detection. Average token log likelihood [55] is widely used to measure the quality of texts. Following [13], we investigated a defense strategy using the likelihood score to detect anomalous sentences. In our experiments, we utilized GPT-2 [56] to assess whether injected adversarial passages could be distinguished based on their average log likelihood, with comparisons shown in Figure 6 (d). The results indicate that passages generated by BadRAG are difficult to differentiate from clean passages. The reason behinds is that although the backdoor prefix is less fluent, it is significantly shorter than the subsequent fluent malicious content, which dilutes any detectable reduction in overall fluency. (a) (b) (c) (d) (f) (e) clean adversarial clean queries adversarial queries w/ trigger Figure 6: Results of potential defenses. For experiments on the close-ended QA datasets, the trigger scenario we used is "discussing Republic". For experiments on the open-ended generation, we test three trigger scenarios, i.e., "discussing Donald Trump", "discussing TikTok" and "discussing Chinese". For close-ended QA datasets, we randomly insert triggers into the original queries to form the triggered queries. For the open-ended generation tasks, we construct queries within the trigger scenario. For instance, in scenarios related to "discussing Donald Trump", we generate queries such as "Analyze Trump’s immigration policy." These triggered queries are produced either manually by researchers [57] or automatically by LLMs [29]. In this study, 16 we utilize ChatGPT to generate triggered queries owing to its cost-effectiveness. Specifically, for each topic aimed at steering sentiment, we generate 300 triggered queries using ChatGPT, focusing on open-ended discussions pertinent to the topic. 17