for parameters, given that an Evolved Transformer layer has signiﬁcantly less parameters than a standard Transformer layer. Evolved Transformer’s slowness counteracts its sample efﬁciency and for this reason its speedup factor is diminished on LM1B and less than 1.0 (indicating a slowdown over vanilla Transformer) on C4 (see Tables 4 and 5). This limits Evolved Transformer’s practicality. In contrast, Primer is designed to speciﬁcally address this shortcoming and thus delivers the practical result of substantial compute savings. 9For our data center in Oklahoma, for purposes of Google’s 24/7 CFE accounting, the Regional Grid is the Southwest Power Pool (SPP) Independent System Operator. 33 The open-ended nature of the Primer search also allows for effective modiﬁcations that were not available to the Evolved Transformer search. In fact, none of the Primer modiﬁcations (see Section 3) can be represented in the Evolved Transformer search space, aside from resizing hidden dimension sizes. This is because the Evolved Transformer search space followed a rigid ordering of components and used a vocabulary of unalterable high level building blocks. For example, normalization always preceded weighted transformations and, although there were different weighted transformations to choose from such as self-attention and GLU, those transformations could not be modiﬁed by the search. In contrast, the Primer search space allows for the modiﬁcation of all initialized modules – such as weighted transformations, activation functions and normalization functions – as well as allows for macro-level reordering, such as moving normalization after weighted transformations. We believe that this difference in openness is what allowed Primer to develop deﬁnitively superior modiﬁcations, as demonstrated not only by improved compute efﬁciency, but also by improved sample efﬁciency (Table 8), which is what Evolved Transformer was meant to optimize. A.15 Practical Discussion The main motivation of this work is to develop simple and practical changes to Transformers that can be easily adopted. To that end, we provide answers to some questions that practitioners may ask: • Are the Primer training compute savings going to be the same in all setups? No. Across our own provided experiments, Primer yields various compute savings. This is because the compute savings depend on hardware speciﬁcs, deep learning library operation speeds, model sample efﬁciencies on speciﬁc tasks, and other factors that may vary across setups. We use the exact replica of T5 training as a demonstration of what savings look like in an established conﬁguration (4.2X), but expect results to vary across conﬁgurations. • Can Primer improve BERT [2]? This work has focused on the speciﬁc task of auto- regressive language modeling, which, with the development of GPT-3, proves to be important for both traditional NLP applications as well as generative applications. We have only brieﬂy investigated Primer’s application to masked language modeling and encoder-decoder models (Appendix A.12). Our investigations show that, while Primer improves upon vanilla Transformer, it is not obviously better than Transformer++. Thus, modiﬁcations that work well for auto-regressive language modeling may not be as effective for masked language modeling. Future work could investigate if the Primer