(1%) in three out of seven datasets com- pared to their counterparts with English prompts while two underperformed, and one showed equiv- alent performance (see Table 9 in Appendix). When evaluating these LLMs in multi-dialectal settings, the performance gap between MSA and dialectal test sets becomes more evident. For ex- ample, in both the GPT-models, we noticed a large discrepancy in the POS accuracy of 0.367 vs. 0.323 on MSA and dialects respectively. Similarly, for the dialect identification we notice a significant difference between the SOTA acoustic and lexical model with respect to LLMs results. From the average performance gap between se- mantic and syntactic tasks, as reported in Table 10, we noticed the discrepancy in semantic tasks is much lower than in syntactic tasks, across the three LLMs. This suggests that these models might be better equipped at encoding and expressing se- mantic information than in pinpointing specific syn- tactic phenomena in their inputs. Moreover, these performance gaps can also be linked to undesirable hallucination. In particular, during the MT for the Bible, results reveal an interesting phenomenon. It appears that the GPT models, particularly GPT- 3.5-turbo, tend to hallucinate and insert additional content in their responses. Is the data contaminated? We have used some datasets for evaluation that are released after the cut-off date of ChatGPT training (September 2021), which include subjectivity, propaganda, check wor- thiness, factuality (CT-CWT-22), harmful content, and attention worthiness. Moreover, we experiment with nine datasets using the guided instructions ap- proach proposed by Golchin and Surdeanu (2023) revealing that GPT-4 could not produce any exam- ple from these datasets. Thus, we can confirm that the models have not been contaminated with such datasets as detailed in in Appendix C.7. Speech Model Performances: We observed the performance of these models is heavily depen- dent on the architecture parameters. USM model performs comparably with SOTA for MSA. Both Whisper (and its variants) and USM show a perfor- mance gap when dealing with dialects, specially Moroccan dialect. Fine-tuning the open model (Whisper Largev2) with only 2 hours of speech data bridges the performance gap significantly, in- dicating the potential to be a robust and strong foundation model. Our observation also suggests that USM model is better equipped to handle code- switching phenomena in spoken utterance than the supervised large transformer models. 6 Related Work Models for NLP: Since the inception of the trans- former architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017), there have been efforts to develop larger models with its variants such as BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019), XLM-RoBERTa (Con- neau et al., 2020), GPT models (Radford et al., 2018, 2019; Ouyang et al., 2022) among others. Such advancements have led to the development LLMs with parameter sizes exceeding 100 bil- lion, which are pre-trained on massive datasets. Examples of LLMs include Megatron (Shoeybi et al., 2019), GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020), GPT- Jurassic (Lieber et al., 2021), OPT-175B (Zhang et al., 2022), and Bloom (Scao et al., 2022). This unprecedented scale enabled