of ﬁeld studies and industry-shared experiences that could bridge the gap between theoretical research and practical application. For RAG systems to fully realize their potential, research must be conducted in tandem with industry implementations. This collaboration would help address real- world challenges, such as managing heterogeneous data sources, integrating separate knowledge bases, and optimizing system performance for production environments. Sharing ﬁeld studies and insights from industry implementations can signiﬁcantly enhance research, enabling more robust solutions that cater to the complex demands of real-world applications. Given the complexity of real-world applications, particularly in industry settings that involve intricate socio-technical systems, more detailed research is needed to study the implementation and deployment of RAG systems in the ﬁeld as pilot projects in the industry and their maturation into production. Such research should assess the maturity of this approach, identify and address process gaps, and generate ideas to enhance the reliability and adoption of RAG systems. Collaboration between industry and academia is, therefore, essential, as sharing the challenges faced in the ﬁeld can signiﬁcantly advance research on LLMs and RAG. Furthermore, it is crucial to establish best practices based on industry learning and to create a governance framework that ensures compliance with regulatory requirements when deploying RAG technologies. 3 Design The advent of large language models (LLMs) like CHATGPT has revolutionized the way information can be retrieved from proprietary documents. However, given the relative immaturity of these models, their integration into socio- technical systems must be meticulously designed to ensure that the ﬁnal solution is both reliable and accurate. This design process involves extensive experimentation with prompt engineering, innovative strategies for data chunking, indexing, and retrieval, as well as iterative and thorough testing of the entire system. In this section, we explore the challenges and opportunities of implementing RAG systems in production. We outline the key technological decisions required when designing such a system, focusing on the various components of RAG. We begin by discussing the need for and background of developing an RAG-based system for information retrieval in our ﬁeld study, highlighting the main pain points in the existing system and the areas where RAG with LLMs was evaluated to add value. We then detail our design process, emphasizing our approach in light of user readiness for this human-AI system. 3.1 Domain Background In our ﬁeld study, focused on developing a pilot solution for an IT product company, the challenge of integrating LLMs like CHATGPT into socio-technical systems became particularly relevant. The variability of product versions across different customer environments in IT companies demands a trained support team capable of delivering prompt and accurate assistance. Addressing this need required a carefully designed system involving extensive experimentation with prompt engineering, innovative data chunking, and indexing methods, as well as iterative testing and reﬁnement to ensure the reliability and accuracy of the LLM-based solution. In IT organizations, support is often structured in multiple tiers, including internal and customer-facing support. Al- though the initial design of our system was not meant for direct customer access,