object’s axis to produce a ﬁxed size embedding for each of the M timesteps. The av- eraged output of the Spatial Encoder results in a tensor with shape(M, 256), which is fed to the Temporal Encoder that aggregates the temporal information of the visual input. Fi- nally, a Transformer Decoder takes as input a NL-queries set and the output of the Temporal Encoder to produce a tensor (3, 256) of three individual embeddings. The rationale for this particular architecture is threefolds. (i) Capturing ﬁne-grained details about the appearance of the tracked vehicle. By using a dedicated convolutional architecture to embed the sequence of the tracked vehicle crops we aim to properly distinguish very similar sequences which often differ only in details about the target vehicle (e.g. the color or the type). (ii) Modelling the spatial rela- tionships between the tracked vehicle and the surrounding objects. These sort of interactions are often highly discrim- inative of the described scene, given that a portion of the descriptions refers to interactions between the tracked ve- hicle and other road users ( e.g. “A ⟨target’s description⟩ is [followed by — following — behind — ...] a ⟨other ve- hicle’s description ⟩”). The addition of the precomputed object embeddings provides a strong insight regarding both the arrangement and the visual appearance of subjects in- volved in interactions with the target vehicle. (iii) Model- ing the temporal dimension. To truly capture all the spatio- temporal changes of the scene, the Temporal Encoder must operate on the output of the Spatial Encoder. In this way we expect the AYCE model to extrapolate trajectory details of the vehicles such as “A ⟨target’s description⟩[turns left — turns right — going straight — ...]”. 4.1.1 Precomputed object embeddings A pre-trained object detector is employed to obtain an ad- ditional set of detection bounding boxes and correspond- ing visual representations for each frame of the video se- quences. We use the Faster R-CNN detector [20] with a ResNet-50 [10] backbone, trained on the 80-classes dataset COCO [14]. Any detection with a conﬁdence score lower than 0.85 gets discarded. Among the remaining, we select only objects belonging to classes relevant to our problem, i.e. different types of vehicles, pedestrians, and other road objects ( e.g. stop sign and trafﬁc light). The two-stage nature of Faster R-CNN has been ex- ploited to obtain an additional visual embedding for each detected object: right after the ROI-Pooling module, which takes the output of the Region-Proposal Network and out- puts a (7×7×256) vector for each proposed region, we ap- ply an average pooling operation to obtain an (1×1×256) vector of features. Then, we concatenate the corresponding pooled feature vector to the values deﬁning each detection bounding box. With this addition, the ﬁnal output of the ob- ject detector becomes a (5+256) vector with the ﬁrst value being the object’s class, the next four the box coordinates normalized by the image’s shape in the range (0, 1) and ﬁ- nally the visual features vector. We discard any