work (MetaRAG). As illustrated in Figure 1(b), MetaRAG features a “cognition-metacognition” collaborative framework. The cognition component is responsible for deriving answers from the provided question and references, while the metacognitive component, act- ing as a critic model, delves deep into potential mistakes during reasoning. Upon conducting an analysis of model performance un- der different conditions of knowledge (as detailed in Sec. 3.2), it has been observed that there are three main reasons causing the model fails to infer the correct answer: insufficient knowledge, conflicting knowledge, and erroneous reasoning. Endowed with the benefit of metacognitive mechanism, we expect the model to be aware of its own cognitive process in RAG tasks from two aspects: (1) The sufficiency and harmonization of external retrieved knowledge and LLM’s intrinsic knowledge. (2) The reliability and accuracy of multi-hop reasoning. By doing so, the model is capable of identifying potential issues present in knowledge integration and answer reasoning, thereby enabling targeted improvements. Specifically, we delineate the metacognitive process into three distinct steps in the context of retrieval-augmented LLMs. (1) Mon- itoring assesses the quality of the current response to determine whether there’s a need to invoke the metacognitive evaluating. (2) Evaluating is to identify the reasons why the current answer may not meet the requirements. During this phase, the model leverages metacognitive knowledge to analyze the flaws in the response. This knowledge encompasses two main areas: declarative knowledge, which involves recognizing prevalent error patterns, and proce- dural knowledge, focusing on the utilization of methods to assess the sufficiency and harmonization of both internal and external knowledge. Based on this evaluation, results are categorized into four distinct scenarios. (3) Planning offers tailored suggestions for the cognitive component on potential improvements. For each of the aforementioned scenarios in the evaluating stage, distinct planning strategies are designed to enhance the original cognitive process. Collectively, these steps ensure that the model not only identifies inadequacies in its initial cognitive responses but also fixes them based on the metacognitive evaluating and planning. The experimental results on two multi-hop question answering (QA) datasets indicate that MetaRAG gains higher capabilities of reasoning and outperforms existing baselines significantly. The contributions of this paper are summarized as: (1) We intro- duce a metacognitive retrieval-augmented generation framework that integrates LLMs with human introspective reasoning for multi- hop QA tasks. (2) Through empirical analysis, we summarize three primary challenges in multi-hop QA causing wrong answers: insuf- ficient knowledge, conflicting knowledge, and erroneous reasoning. (3) We devise a three-step metacognitive regulation pipeline tai- lored for retrieval-augmented LLMs, offering a systematic way for models to assess, diagnose, and refine the original cognitive process. 2 RELATED WORK The development of retrieval-augmented language models has been a central theme in recent research endeavors. Their aim is to har- moniously marry the static knowledge encapsulated within the language model to the dynamic wealth of information on the web. The development of these models can be bifurcated into two pri- mary phases: single-time retrieval and multi-time retrieval. Single-time Retrieval. Initial endeavors in retrieval-augmented