decided to analyze the heterogeneity of the data both at sentence-level and at sentence-triplet-level. We discovered that the sentences are very similar to each other. In particular, at sentence-level, the most recurrent sentence occurs 53 times, while at sentence-triplet-level 15 sentence- triplets have two identical sentences among the three, and in one case there are three identical sentences within a sentence-triplet. Then, we did the same test removing one of the previously mentioned features from the sentence, and we compared the remaining part. From this analysis, we discovered that there are up to 30 sentence-triplets with two identical sentences (removing the type) which differ only by one, meaningful, word. The same behavior, even more obvious, can be noticed at sentence-level, where in some cases there are up to 172 repetitions (removing the color). 4. Method The proposed AYCE model is depicted in Figure 3. It takes two separate inputs: (i) a Visual input, which includes the representation of a unique SVT sequence, and (ii) a Nat- ural Language (NL) input, which includes the three sen- tences that describe the sequence. The ﬁnal output is a dis- tance value that quantiﬁes the afﬁnity degree between the two inputs: the lower distance is, the higher is the likelihood of the NL part to be a meaningful description for visual in- put. From an architectural standpoint, the Visual branch consists of a ResNet-family CNN, two stacked Transform- ers Encoders, and a ﬁnal Transformer Decoder. Instead, the NL branch is a BERT model with the addition of a single fully connected layer. The two branches are trained on sep- arate stages: ﬁrst, the BERT model is ﬁne-tuned on the NL descriptions; then, the Visual branch is trained from scratch using a metric-learning approach to learn an embedding of visual input projected onto the same latent space of the NL embeddings. 4.1. Visual Branch The i-th visual input vi is a tensor of shape (M, O + 1, (256 + 5)) (omitting the batch dimen- sion), where M deﬁnes a subsample of the total number of frames in the i-th vehicle tracking sequence, O is the number of objects detected by an off-the-shelf object detector in the a-th frame and (256 + 5) is the size of an object-embedding vector that encodes the representation of each b-th object, carrying visual (256), spatial (4) and classiﬁcation (1) information. From now on, we will denote with V i the output of the visual-branch corresponding to vi. To keep a reasonable memory footprint, M is capped to 80, which is close to the average SVT length (Section 3) hence sequences longer than 80 frames are online randomly subsampled with a uniform probability distribution. The whole frame is never fed to the trainable model, but a set of object embeddings Oa b is collected for each of the M selected frames: for each one of the b objects detectable by a two-stage object detector on the a-th frame, the cor- responding representation is obtained by concatenating the detection bounding