study, which is referenced by the authors ’ names and can be narrowed down to a specific study. Example of a valid question: ’What is the relationship between message loss rates and estimation errors in the MDFU - LP technique, particularly in the context of system accuracy?’ This is a valid question because the context it references is defined - that being system accuracy. The question is specific and unambiguous, with a clear answer that can be reasoned out assuming the model has an understanding of the subject (MDFU -LP). Example of a valid question: ’What is the significance of AIC in the context of statistical mathematics?’ This is a valid question because the context it references is defined - that being statistical mathematics. The question is specific and unambiguous, with a clear answer that can be reasoned out assuming that the model has an understanding of the subject (AIC). Example of an invalid question: ’What is the author ’s favorite city?’ This is an invalid question because it is not clear who the author is, and the question cannot be answered without additional context that specifies who the author is. Example of an invalid question: ’What type of behavior did younger monkeys show a higher attraction to in the study, and how does this attraction differ from the behaviors exhibited by older monkeys?’ This is an invalid question because it asks about a study without specifying which study, and the question cannot be answered without additional context that specifies the study being referenced. Example of an invalid question: "How many senior Russian political figures were included in the Treasury Department ’s list released on Monday ?" This is an invalid question because it is unclear which Monday is being referenced as the release date of the Treasury Department ’s list. Since the date is ambiguous, there could be multiple treasury department lists released on different Mondays, and the question cannot be answered without specifying the release date of the list. </EXAMPLES > 17 For all valid questions in the JSON array, add a ’valid ’ key with a value of ’true ’ to the valid question object. Example input: <EXAMPLE JSON > [ {{ "question": "What is the capital of France ?" "id": "1" ...( other keys - DO NOT TOUCH) }}, {{ "question": "What is the author ’s favorite city ?" "id": "2" ...( other keys - DO NOT TOUCH) }} ] </EXAMPLE JSON > Example output: <EXAMPLE JSON > [ {{ "question": "What is the capital of France ?" "id": "1" "valid": "true" "reason": "This question is valid because it can be answered based on general knowledge ." ...( other keys - DO NOT TOUCH) }}, {{ "question": "What is the author ’s favorite city ?" "id": "2" "valid": "false" "reason": "This question is invalid because it is not clear who the author is, and the question cannot be answered without additional context that specifies who the author is." ...( other keys - DO NOT TOUCH) }}