from 1st to 17th in education (a) (b) Figure 4: Examples of wrongly predicted memes by our proposed framework with the ground truth (a) harmful and (b) harmless. or normalizing the behavior depicted in the im- age. The image features “a group of Ku Klux Klan members walking on a beach”, which is a symbol of white supremacy and racism. The combination of the phrase in the text and the use of imagery associated with hate groups can contribute to the glorification of harmful behaviors and the perpet- uation of negative stereotypes, which makes the meme harmful. However, due to the lack of related background knowledge about the Ku Klux Klan members and their wear, our framework cannot well recognize the image correctly during the origi- nal vision feature extraction, which leads to error propagation for wrongly concluding that the meme is harmless. Also, in terms of the harmless meme in Figure 4(b), the image that “Jimmy Carter with a smile on his face” is mistakenly recognized as “an older man with a funny expression on his face”, furthermore, the model hallucinates that the meme text “can be considered harmful and offensive to individuals who identify with the politician”, result- ing in the wrong prediction that the meme is harm- ful. Therefore, it is possible to improve MR.HARM by incorporating more informative vision features and improving language-vision interaction to be capable of understanding the images with more complex background knowledge. Version Harm-C Harm-P FHM Small 84.99 85.33 72.96 Base 85.43 89.57 75.10 Large 84.02 90.14 77.80 Table 3: Macro-averaged F1 score (%) achieved with different versions of our fine-tuned LMs. 4.6 Discussion As our two-stage training paradigm requires dis- tilling the reasoning knowledge and leveraging original vision features, we utilize the T5 encoder- decoder architecture (Raffel et al., 2020; Chung et al., 2022) to initialize our generative framework. To test the generality of the benefits of our approach to different versions of the backbone, we alter the underlying LMs to other variants in different sizes. As shown in Table 3, one interesting phenomenon is that our model has already achieved outstand- ing performance on the three benchmarks with the Small (about 60M parameters) or Base ((about 220M parameters)) version as the backbone, which has a smaller size than the state-of-the-art baseline MaskPrompt (over 300M parameters). The Large version of our backbone generally achieved better performance than the other two backbone versions because the larger the fine-tuned LMs, the more it alleviates the hallucination issue (Ji et al., 2023). Overall, the results show that our framework does not rely excessively on the size of the backbone to improve performance and is generally effective with different versions of the backbone model. 5 Conclusion and Future Work In this paper, we propose to capture implicit mean- ing that is not explicitly conveyed through the sur- face of the text and image in memes for harmful meme detection. We first conduct abductive rea- soning with LLMs. Then we present a novel gen- erative framework