and classifying the words in a sentence that are proper names, names of places, entities like organizations or products, amongst other things. This depends on understand- ing the context and the relations of a word or a collection of words in a sentence, and is key to tasks such as question answering. Datasets ANERCorp We used the test corpus of the AN- ERCorp dataset (Benajiba et al., 2007; Benajiba and Rosso, 2007), which contains 316 articles, 150,286 tokens and 32,114 types, and classifies words into one of four classes (organization, loca- tion, person and miscellaneous), we used the test split of the dataset for our evaluation. AQMAR The dataset is developed as an evalua- tion suite for the named entity recognition task in Arabic. It consists of a collection of 28 Wikipedia articles with 74,000 tokens. We consider the arti- cles corresponding to the test split for our evalua- tion. (Schneider et al., 2012). QASR The QASR dataset consists of 70k words extracted from 2,000 hours of transcribed Arabic speech (Mubarak et al., 2021b). A.2 Machine Translation (MT) The machine translation evaluation set is a rich set that covers a variety of Arabic in addition to the Modern Standard Arabic (MSA). The genera of the evaluation set also cover formal, informal, speech, and other modalities. These types and va- rieties allowed us to assess the system and reveal its potential and limitations. For this study, we fo- cused on translating Arabic to English and used the datasets discussed below. Datasets MADAR Corpus This dataset consists of 2,000 sentences from the BTEC corpus translated to mod- ern standard Arabic and four major dialects from 15 countries (Bouamor et al., 2018). Zbib et al. (2012): It is collected from the Arabic- Dialect/English Parallel Text (APT), which consists of 2,000 sentences with 3.5 million tokens of trans- lated dialectal Arabic. Multi-dialectal Parallel Corpus of Arabic (MDC) This dataset also consists of 2,000 sen- tences in Egyptian, Palestinian, Syrian, Jordanian, and Tunisian dialects and their English counter- parts (Bouamor et al., 2014). The Bible It consists of 8.2k parallel sentences translated into modern standard Arabic, and to Mo- roccan13 and Tunisian14 dialects (Abdelali et al., 2019). Media Dataset The dataset consists of 7.5 hours of recordings collected from five public broadcast- ing channels that cover programs with Maghrebi, Lebanese, Omani dialects, and MSA with genres involving movies, news reports, and cultural pro- grams. The recordings were transcribed and trans- lated by a professional translation house (Sajjad et al., 2020). A.3 Dialect Identification Dialect is defined as the speaker’s grammatical, lex- ical, and phonological variation in pronunciation (Etman and Beex, 2015). Automatic Dialect Identi- fication (ADI) has became an important research area in order to improve certain applications and services, such as ASR and many downstream NLP tasks. Dataset For this task, we used the QADI and ADI datasets. QADI consists of a wide range of country-level Arabic dialects covering 18 different countries in the Middle East and North Africa re- gion (Abdelali et al.,