if the pro- posed answer falls prey to any of these errors. For each error type, we furnish a description and several examples in the format {Error name - Error description - Examples}. Subsequently, the ques- tion 𝑞, documents 𝐷𝑞, and answer 𝑦are fed into the LLM, function- ing as a critic in this context: LLMEval-Critic([DK,𝑞, 𝐷𝑞,𝑦], PromptCritic). (5) PromptCritic: Please act as an evaluator-critic system, assess whether the {response} based on {references} for the {question} contains any {error types}? Through the evaluating phase, the model gains an understanding of potential issues within the current answer, which may stem from gaps in knowledge or deficiencies in the reasoning process. Once these challenges are identified, the model can then develop customized solutions to enhance the precision of its reasoning in the context of question-answering. We detail this as follows. 4.3 Planning: Strategizing Answer Refinement In metacognition, the concept of planning refers to the effective regulation of the original cognitive process, guided by the results obtained from the evaluation stage. Empirical studies in Section 3.2 have illuminated three primary challenges in multi-hop QA when the model fails to provide accurate answers: insufficient knowledge, conflicting knowledge, and erroneous reasoning. After identify- ing the issues during the evaluating stage, in this section, we will introduce planning strategies to address each of these challenges. Insufficient Knowledge. In the first condition, there is a lack of both internal and external knowledge to answer the current ques- tion. When the evaluator-critic LLM recognizes this situation, it’s prompted to generate a new query to further retrieve information from the corpus. A well-formulated follow-up query should have two characteristics: (1) It should differ from the original inquiry to specifically target missing information. (2) It should break down the original question into a more specific sub-question. Specifically, given a question 𝑞, the existing retrieved documents 𝐷𝑞, and an answer 𝑦, we utilize the evaluator-critic LLM’s introspective ability to deduce what external knowledge is still lacking: 𝑞′ = LLMEval-Critic([𝑞, 𝐷𝑞,𝑦], PromptQG), (6) where PromptQG is an instruction that encourages the LLM to ask a new query with “To answer this question, I further need to search {𝑞′}”. With this new query𝑞′, the model conducts another search to obtain additional documents. These newly retrieved documents are then incorporated into the reference list as new external knowledge. Conflicting Knowledge. Another situation that can result in inaccurate responses is when there’s a disparity between internal and external knowledge. When one subset of knowledge is sufficient to answer a question, but another isn’t, the model might become confused due to the inconsistency between the two. This scenario can be classified into following two cases: • Only Internal Knowledge Available. When the model is capable of providing the correct answer directly, external references may serve as distractors. To mitigate this, it’s advisable for the model to discard external references and rely on its intrinsic knowl- edge. We achieve this by altering the question-answering prompt, guiding the model to rely solely on its internal knowledge. • Only