office? The answer is 1905-11-06 00:00:00 {Knowledge} Question: The most populous city in Punjab is how large (area wise)? The answer is 310 square kilometers {Knowledge} Question: What is the capital of the country where yoga originated? The answer is New Delhi Table 21: 3-Shot Demonstrations for Direct Prompting on Bamboogle. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # Question: When did the first prime minister of the Russian Empire come into office? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the first prime minister of the Russian Empire? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Sergei Witte Follow up: When did Sergei Witte come into office? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Sergei Witte was appointed on 6 November 1905. So the final answer is: 1905-11-06 00:00:00 # Question: The most populous city in Punjab is how large (area wise)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What is the most populous city in Punjab? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: Ludhiana is the most populous and largest city in Punjab. Follow up: How large is Ludhiana, the most populous city in Punjab? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The area of Ludhiana is over 310 km2. So the final answer is: 310 square kilometers # Question: What is the capital of the country where yoga originated? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Which country was yoga originated? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: There is no consensus on yoga’s origin. Suggested origins include India. Follow up: What is the capital of India? {Knowledge} Intermediate answer: The current capital of India is New Delhi. So the final answer is: New Delhi Table 22: 3-Shot Demonstrations for ReAct on Bamboogle. Given the following question, answer it by providing follow up questions and intermediate answers. For each follow up question, you are given a context which is the top returned Wikipedia snippets for the question. If no follow up questions are necessary, answer the question directly. # {Knowledge} Question: When did the first prime minister of the Russian Empire come into office? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: Who is the first prime minister of the Russian Empire? Intermediate answer: Sergei Witte Follow up: When did Sergei Witte come into office? Intermediate answer: Sergei Witte was appointed on 6 November 1905. So the final answer is: 1905-11-06 00:00:00 # {Knowledge} Question: The most populous city in Punjab is how large (area wise)? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: What is the most populous city in Punjab? Intermediate answer: Ludhiana is the most populous and largest city in Punjab. Follow up: How large is Ludhiana, the most populous city in Punjab? Intermediate answer: The area of Ludhiana is over 310 km2. So the final answer is: 310 square kilometers # {Knowledge} Question: What is the capital