Specifically, we use the first sentence, the first 256 tokens, and the first 512 to- kens of each old story as a prompt. We use top-k sampling-based decoding with k set to 100 and generate five samples for each prompt, resulting in a total of 3660 generated stories. The breakdown of the generated stories along with the length of the prompt is given in Table 1. Instruction-following Models For instruction- following story generation, we use Alpaca (Taori et al., 2023), which is an instruction-following model that is based on the LLaMA architecture and is fine-tuned using self-instruct (Wang et al., 2022). We use the Alpaca model based on the 7B variant of the LLaMA model. We use four differ- ent instruction templates to generate stories, two of which require a story title as input and two of which do not. For the templates that require a story title, we use the title of old stories as input. The templates are provided in Table 2. To generate sto- ries, we use top-k sampling-based decoding with k set to 100 and generate five samples for each tem- plate, resulting in a total of 2440 generated stories with 610 stories per template. 4.3 In-text statistics We compare various statistics derived from the text of the generated stories against those of ac- tual stories. Specifically, we use two metrics: sen- tence length and Flesch reading ease score (Flesch, 1948). Flesch Reading Ease Score The Flesch read- ing ease score (FRES) measures the readability of a text and is based on two factors: average sen- tence length and the average number of syllables per word. It provides a score between 0 and 100, with higher scores indicating easier readability. A Flesch reading ease score above 60 for a text indi- cates that it can easily be read by children up to the age of 15. The formula for calculating the FRES of a text is shown in Equation 1. FRES = 206.835 −1.015  total words total sentence  −84.6 total syllables total words  (1) 4.4 Toxicity of text Gehman et al. 2020 found that the LLMs can gener- ate ‘toxic’ text from a very innocuous prompt and attribute this to a significant amount of offensive, factually unreliable, and otherwise toxic content in the training data of these models. We want to investigate the level of toxicity in our generated children’s stories. Ideally, generated children’s sto- ries should be free of any toxic text. We use Detoxify (Hanu and Unitary team, 2020), a BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) based toxic text de- tector, to identify the presence of toxic text in the generated children’s stories. Detoxify generates score labels in the range of 0 to 1, assessing the toxicity of the text based on categories such as toxic, severely toxic, obscene, threat, insult, and identity hate. Specifically, we use detoxify for each sentence of our actual and generated stories to get toxicity measures across the six categories. 4.5 Topic Modeling We also analyze the