current implementations across various professional domains, identifying key technical challenges and promising research directions. All the related resources of GraphRAG, including research papers, open- source data, and projects, are collected for the community in https://github.com/DEEP-PolyU/Awesome-GraphRAG. II. OVERVIEW This survey provides a comprehensive analysis of GraphRAG, detailing its taxonomy, mechanisms, challenges, and future research directions, which is organized into seven main sections that progress from foundational concepts to practical imple- mentations. Specifically, we begin in Section III by establishing the foundational framework, tracing GraphRAG’s evolution from traditional RAG systems, examining RAG’s limitations in handling structured knowledge, and introducing GraphRAG’s core concepts and advantages in complex reasoning tasks. The following three sections systematically explore the key components of GraphRAG systems: two primary paradigms for structured knowledge organization, including knowledge carrier graphs and index graphs (Section IV), retrieval techniques for extracting query-relevant factual information from structured knowledge bases (Section V), and knowledge integration methods for effectively incorporating retrieved knowledge into LLMs (Section VI). Moving toward practical applications, Section A (see Appendix) explores the real-world implementa- tions of GraphRAG systems by reviewing open-source projects and benchmark datasets across different domains. Finally, Sections B and C (see Appendix) conclude by identifying future research directions and discussing potential challenges in knowledge quality, retrieval efficiency, system generalization, and security. Throughout the survey, we balance fundamental concepts, the current state-of-the-art methods, and practical implementations, making it valuable for both researchers advancing the field and practitioners developing GraphRAG applications in real-world scenarios. Our survey advances beyond the existing survey [27], [29], [30] through a more systematic and comprehensive review of existing GraphRAG systems. While the previous survey offered a basic workflow description covering Graph-based Indexing, Graph-guided Retrieval, and Graph-enhanced Gener- ation, we introduce a more sophisticated and comprehensive taxonomy that clearly categorizes GraphRAG approaches into three distinct categories (Knowledge-based, Index-based, and Hybrid GraphRAG), providing a more nuanced understanding of the field. Our survey features a more systematic six- section structure that progresses logically from theoretical foundations to practical implementations, offering a more detailed exploration of each component, including knowledge organization paradigms, retrieval techniques, and integration methods. Unlike the previous survey, we provide extensive practical guidance through a detailed review of open-source projects, and domain-specific case studies supported by compre- hensive datasets across different domains. We also offer a more thorough analysis of challenges and solutions across multiple dimensions, including knowledge quality, retrieval efficiency, system generalization, and security concerns. Finally, while the existing survey broadly discussed potential applications, we provide actionable insights supported by comprehensive analysis and implementation examples, making our survey a more valuable resource for practitioners to deploy GraphRAG systems in production environments. III. WHAT IS GRAPHRAG This section provides an overview of RAG with LLMs, including the traditional RAG pipeline, the GraphRAG, and the advantages GraphRAG offers over traditional RAG systems. A. Traditional RAG Pipeline A RAG framework begins by retrieving relevant information from pre-constructed external knowledge bases based on 4 Knowledge Integration Direct Integration Tailored Prompt Design Fine-tuning Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario