majority voting are given in scenarios where only one decision is made from the aggregation. In contrast, in the case of RAG, generally the top p samples are drawn from the set of documents. Even though the N and k are chosen in accordance with those guarantees, the adversary can end up getting chosen in the top p documents even though it is not the topmost relevant document. While we can restrict ourselves to the top 1 document, it can severely hurt the performance of the system due to the existence of multiple documents and the retriever’s deficiency. 2. What are the limitations of the proposed defenses? In what scenarios can the defense not defend and what is your argument against such scenarios? The scenario we consider the most here is the scenario where there is an adversarial document and it is generally not retrievable for the retriever, and a poison is added to make it retrievable. If the adversarial document itself is retrievable, then our defenses may fail. For example, consider the following scenario. Given a query “Where is Mount Everest located?” a golden document can be “Mount Everest is located between Nepal and Tibet,” and an adversarial document can be “Mount Everest is located at Spain.” An important point to note here is that both these documents are semantically similar, i.e., both the documents talk about the location of Mount Everest, and one document is adversarial due to the fact that it contains misinformation or can induce the generation to contain misinformation. If the retriever is retrieving this document, that means the retriever doesn’t have the knowledge about the factual error in the document. Thus, there is no way to defend against such a poison at the retrieval stage; rather, we argue that one should consider a generation-level defense as this is due to the deficiency of the retriever. If one is to solve this problem in a retrieval defense, then they should consider enhancing the retriever with more hard negatives (a document that is getting retrieved but is not actually a relevant document; i.e., harder to discriminate document). The attack we proposed (AdvRAGgen) to some level does create such a document (where it blends the query into the adversarial document), that’s why it was a relatively harder attack to defend against, although our proposed defenses show an acceptable level of robustness against the attack. One may ask in what scenarios our assumption of the attack is practical. RAGs are used in e-commerce or in retrieving law documents in many cases. In the case of an e-commerce website, a malicious 23 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation product seller may add a poison to make his product retrievable for an irrelevant query in order to increase their sales. Similarly, in the case of a legal RAG system, one may try to make a document with an incorrect judgment retrievable with malicious intentions. 24 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented