whether the content of a tweet aims to, and can, negatively affect society as a whole, spe- cific individuals, companies, products, or spread rumors about them. The content intends to harm or weaponize the information21 (Broniatowski et al., 2018). Dataset We used the Arabic dataset proposed in (Nakov et al., 2022c), which consists of a total of 6,155 annotated tweets. A.7.11 Attention-worthiness Detection In social media most often people tweet by blam- ing authorities, providing advice, and/or call for action. It might be important for the policy mak- ers to respond to those posts. The purpose of this task is to categorize such information into one of the following categories: not interesting, not sure, harmfullness, other, blames authorities, contains advice, calls for action, discusses action taken, dis- cusses cure, asks a question. 21The use of information as a weapon to spread misinfor- mation and mislead people. Dataset For this task, we used a subset of the dataset Task 1D of the CLEF2022 CheckThat Lab (Nakov et al., 2022a), which contains 6,140 annotated tweets. A.8 Semantic textual similarity A.8.1 Textual Similarity Semantic textual similarity is a measure used to determine if two sentences are semantically equiv- alent. The task involves generating numerical sim- ilarity scores for pairs of sentences, with perfor- mance evaluated based on the Pearson correla- tion between machine-generated scores and human judgments (Cer et al., 2017). Two tasks were con- ducted to gauge the similarity between 250 pairs of Arabic sentences, as well as Arabic-English sen- tence pairs. Dataset We used SemEval-2017 Task 1 (Track 1: ar-ar and Track 2: ar-en) dataset (Cer et al., 2017), which is a translated version (machine trans- lation followed by post-editing by human) of SNLI dataset (Bowman et al., 2015). A.8.2 Semantic Question Similarity The idea of this task is to determine how similar two questions are in terms of their meaning. Dataset We used Mawdoo3 Q2Q dataset (NSURL-2019 task 8: Semantic question simi- larity in Arabic), which consists of 15,712 anno- tated pairs of questions. Each pair is labeled as no semantic similarity (0) or semantically similar (1) (Seelawi et al., 2019). A.8.3 Natural Language Inference (NLI) The XNLI task, known as Cross-lingual Natural Language Inference (Conneau et al., 2018), is a widely used benchmark in the field of natural lan- guage processing (NLP). It involves determining the logical relationship between pairs of sentences written in different languages. Specifically, the task requires NLP models to determine whether a given hypothesis sentence is entailed, contradicted, or neutral in relation to a given premise sentence, across multiple languages. The XNLI task serves as a rigorous evaluation of the cross-lingual transfer capabilities of NLP models, assessing their ability to understand and reason in different languages within a multilingual context. Dataset The dataset we used for this study is the translated version of Arabic from XNLI cor- pus (Conneau et al., 2018). For the annotation, 250 English sentences were selected from ten different sources and then asked the annotators to produce three hypotheses per sentence