such as sparse encoding metrics BM25 (Robertson et al., 2009), text-embedding-ada-002 model from OpenAI, bge model from BAAI (Zhang et al., 2023a), and supervised fine-tuned embedding model (Wang et al., 2023c) to validate our analysis on retrieval quality. We show that among these models, text-embedding-ada-002 and supervised fine-tuned embedding models outperform other baselines in achieving low conformal generation risks. 2. Related work Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) is a framework for improving the generation quality of LLMs via retrieving relevant information from an external knowledge base and grounding the model on the retrieved knowledge for condi- tional generations. SOTA retrieval methods (Lewis et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020) employ dual encoders to project both query and candidate texts into the embedding space and retrieve candidate texts that exhibit high similarity to the embedded query text. Although RAG is demonstrated to be effective in enhancing the generation credibility, their theoretical understanding is limited. Basu et al. conduct retrieval analysis for a constrained function and data class from a statistical perspective, but the results cannot be applicable to self-attention transformers and to arbitrary data distribution. In this work, we provide the first theoretical analysis of how RAG leads to low gener- ation risks in self-attention transformers for arbitrary data distribution. Conformal prediction is a statistical technique used to create prediction sets with assured coverage. (Vovk et al., 1999; 2005; Lei et al., 2013; Yang & Kuchibhotla, 2021). Broadly, conformal risk control methods (Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et al., 2021; 2022; Quach et al., 2023) pro- vide a high-confidence risk guarantee for black-box risk functions, assuming data exchangeability. However, the risk guarantee can be broken under test-time distribution shifts. While Angelopoulos et al. and Farinhas et al. offer a valid conformal risk guarantee for monotonic risk functions under distribution shifts, the monotonicity assumption is not always practical. In this work, we introduce a generally applicable conformal risk guarantee for general bounded risk functions, under distribution shifts at test time. 3. Preliminaries Before introducing C-RAG, we first review the preliminar- ies of conformal controlling methods (Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et al., 2021; 2022), which calibrate machine learning models to ensure their predictions meet explicit finite-sample statistical guarantees. Let R(λ) and ˆR(λ) de- note the population risk and empirical risk, respectively, where λ ∈Λ is a parameter that induces the risk. We consider a finite parameter space Λ with N parameters, λ1, . . . , λN. For a desired risk level α (0 < α < 1), we de- fine N null hypotheses: Hj : R(λj) > α (j ∈1, . . . , N). Let pj be the p-value of the null hypothesis Hj. Given n calibra- tion samples, Bates et al.; Angelopoulos et al. provide valid p-values as follows: pj =min n exp n −nh( ˆR(λj), α) o ,eP h Bin(n, α) ≤⌈n ˆR(λj)⌉ io , (1) where h(a, b) = a log(a/b) + (1 −a) log((1−a)/(1−b)). Let J be the index set of false null