which the literature remains limited to date [4]. 2 RELATED WORK Our work integrates concepts from methodologies that generate QA from document collections for downstream fine-tuning of either Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, LLMs or encoder models, with techniques leveraging query aug- mentation to boost the performance of retrievers in RAG pipelines. Below, we outline related work relevant to these two areas of RAG enhancement. 2.1 RAG Enhancement with Fine-tuning Methodologies that aim at improving RAG pipelines based on fine- tuning generally constitute a higher barrier to entry for performing both the initial parameters update, and the maintenance of the accuracy of the model over time to new documents. They require careful data cleaning and (often manual) curation, and manual iter- ations across training hyperparameters sets to successfully adapt the model to the task at hand without causing catastrophic forget- ting of the pre-trained model knowledge [13]. In addition, model tuning may not be sustainable for frequent knowledge-base up- dates, and represents a generally higher cost due the underlying requirements of compute resources, despite the recent development of parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) techniques [14, 15]. In e-commerce retrieval frameworks, TaoBao created a query rewriting framework based on company logs and rejection sampling to fine-tune a LLM in a supervised fashion, without QA generation. They further introduced a new contrastive learning methods to calibrate query generation probability to be aligned with desired search results, leading to a significant boost of merchandise volume, number of transactions and unique visitors [5]. As an alternative, reinforcement learning methods based on black-box LLM evalua- tion has also been leveraged to train a smaller query-rewriter LLM, which showed a consistent performance improvement in open- domain and multiple-choice questions and answers (QA) in web search [7]. Reinforcement learning-based approaches, however, are subject to more instability during the training phase, and require a careful investigations of the trade-offs between generalization and specialization among downstream tasks [7]. Other approaches have focused on specifically improving the embedding space between the user query and the documents at hand, rather than augmenting the query itself. Authors of InPars [16] augmented their documents knowledge base by generating synthetic questions and answers pairs in a unsupervised fashion, and subsequently used them to fine-tune a T5 base embedding model. They showed that using the fine-tuned embedding model followed by a neural reranker such as ColBERT [17] outperformed strong baselines such as BM25 [18]. Most recently, other types of approaches have been developed to improve the end-to-end pipeline performance, such as RAFT [19], which consists in specifically training a reader to differentiate between relevant and irrelevant documents, or QUILL [12] that aims at entirely replacing the RAG pipeline using RAG-augmented distillation training of another LLM. 2.2 RAG Enhancement without Fine-tuning As an alternative to fine-tuning LLMs or encoder models, query augmentation methodologies have been developed to increase the performance of the retrievers by transforming the user query pre- encoding. These approaches