Preprint MAKING LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS BETTER REA- SONERS WITH ALIGNMENT Peiyi Wang1 Lei Li3 Liang Chen1 Feifan Song1 Binghuai Lin2 Yunbo Cao2 Tianyu Liu2 Zhifang Sui1 1 National Key Laboratory for Multimedia Information Processing, Peking University 2 Tencent Cloud AI 3 The University of Hong Kong {wangpeiyi9979, nlp.lilei}@gmail.com leo.liang.chen@outlook.com; songff@stu.pku.edu.cn {binghuailin, yunbocao, rogertyliu}@tencent.com; szf@pku.edu.cn ABSTRACT Reasoning is a cognitive process of using evidence to reach a sound conclusion. The reasoning capability is essential for large language models (LLMs) to serve as the brain of the artificial general intelligence agent. Recent studies reveal that fine-tuning LLMs on data with the chain of thought (COT) reasoning process can significantly enhance their reasoning capabilities. However, we find that the fine-tuned LLMs suffer from an Assessment Misalignment problem, i.e., they frequently assign higher scores to subpar COTs, leading to potential limitations in their reasoning abilities. To address this problem, we introduce an Alignment Fine-Tuning (AFT) paradigm, which involves three steps: 1) fine-tuning LLMs with COT training data; 2) generating multiple COT responses for each question, and categorizing them into positive and negative ones based on whether they achieve the correct answer; 3) calibrating the scores of positive and negative responses given by LLMs with a novel constraint alignment loss. Specifically, the constraint alignment loss has two objectives: a) Alignment, which guarantees that positive scores surpass negative scores to encourage answers with high-quality COTs; b) Constraint, which keeps the negative scores confined to a reasonable range to prevent the model degradation. Beyond just the binary positive and negative feedback, the constraint alignment loss can be seamlessly adapted to the ranking situations when ranking feedback is accessible. Furthermore, we also delve deeply into recent ranking-based alignment methods, such as DPO, RRHF, and PRO, and discover that the constraint, which has been overlooked by these approaches, is also crucial for their performance. Extensive experiments on four reasoning benchmarks with both binary and ranking feedback demonstrate the effectiveness of AFT. In addition, AFT also performs well in multi-task and out-of-distribution situations. 1 INTRODUCTION Reasoning is a cognitive process that involves utilizing evidence to reach a well-founded conclusion (Qiao et al., 2023; Huang & Chang, 2023). Recently, there has been a growing focus on enhancing the reasoning abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) (Li et al., 2023b), particularly open-source LLMs (Yuan et al., 2023a; Luo et al., 2023; Mukherjee et al., 2023), because LLMs still lack reasoning skills (Wang et al., 2023b;d; Zheng et al., 2023) that are essential for them to serve as the brain of artificial general intelligence agents (Wang et al., 2023a; Yao et al., 2023; Song et al., 2023b). Recent works (Chung et al., 2022; Hsieh et al., 2023; Mukherjee et al., 2023) find that training LLMs using data with a chain of thought (COT) reasoning process is a very effective method to improve the reasoning ability of LLMs. These studies typically train LLMs using maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), and employ a next-token prediction objective. However, MLE only assigns probability mass to the reference COT,