(LM1B) [24] in Tensor2Tensor [25]. This approach, which we call an implicit efﬁciency objective by ﬁxed training budget, contrasts previous architecture search works that explicitly aim to reduce training or inference step time when optimizing for efﬁciency [26, 27, 28, 29]. Our objective is different in that the trade-off between step time and sample efﬁciency is implicit. For instance, a modiﬁcation that doubles step time, but triples sample efﬁciency is a good modiﬁcation in our search, as it ultimately makes the architecture more compute efﬁcient. Indeed, the modiﬁcations we ﬁnd to be most beneﬁcial, squaring ReLUs and adding depthwise convolutions to attention, increase training step time. However, they improve the sample efﬁciency of the model so much that they decrease the total compute needed to reach a target quality, by drastically reducing the number of training steps needed to get there. The search algorithm we use is Regularized Evolution [30] with hurdles [13]. We conﬁgure our hurdles using a 50th percentile passing bar and space them such that equal compute is invested in each hurdle band; this reduces the search cost by a factor of 6.25X compared to the same experiment with full model evaluations (see Appendix A.3 for more details). Additionally, we use 7 training hours as a proxy for a full day’s training because a vanilla Transformer comes within 90% of its 24 hour training perplexity with just 7 hours of training. This reduces the search cost further by a factor of 3.43X, for a total compute reduction factor of 21.43X. So, although our target is to improve 24 hour performance, it only takes about 1.1 hours to evaluate an individual on average (see Appendix A.4 for more search speciﬁcs, including mutation details and hyperparameters). We run our search for ∼25K individuals and retrain the top 100 individuals on the search task to select the best one. 0 500 1000 Num Individuals 100.74 100.70 100.66 Max Search Fitness Random Concept Figure 3: Small scale searches (10 hours on 10 TPUv2 chips) comparing conceptual initializa- tion to random initialization. Our search space is open-ended enough that it is infeasible to search without strong initializa- tion. Our search space is different from previous search spaces (see architecture search survey by [31]), which are often heavily bi- ased such that random search performs well (see analysis by [32, 33, 34]). As our search space does not have this bias, 78% of random programs in our space with length equal to a Transformer program cannot train more than ﬁve minutes, due to numerical instability. Because of this open-endedness and abundance of degenerate programs, it is necessary to initialize the search popu- lation with copies of the Transformer [13] (input embedding size dmodel = 512, feed forward upwards projection size dff = 2048, and number of layers L = 6) (Figure 3). To apply this initializa- tion to our search space, we must determine how to divide the Transformer program into subprograms. To do this, we divide along the lines of the machine