learning approaches circumvent this problem, they often are difficult to tailor to a particular disease definition or achieve certain acceptance criteria. The majority of work also mostly focuses on structured EHRs; incor- 1st Workshop on Deep Generative Models for Health at NeurIPS 2023. arXiv:2312.06457v1 [cs.AI] 11 Dec 2023 porating the notes in a phenotype definition holds the possibility of developing a better model [11, 12]. To overcome these limitations within practical computational constraints, this paper introduces a retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) approach to zero-shot phenotyping using large language models (LLMs). To our knowledge, this is the first study to explore the application of a RAG approach to process entire patient records with LLMs, as opposed to focusing solely on a specific type of clinical note. An essential aspect of this retrieval step is its ability to analyze all clinical mentions throughout a patient’s entire record without the need for predefined sections of interest. Given the substantial volume of potentially relevant information retrieved, and the aim to assess the language model’s reasoning abilities rather than relying on an intricate retrieval mechanism, this paper also investigates a MapReduce paradigm for parallel snippet evaluation and resolution of potentially conflicting information during the output aggregation stage. To assess the performance of this approach, we enlist a physician SME to assist in developing a competing rules-based model, the commonly used approach in healthcare practice and industry. Both models are then evaluated using an unseen test dataset, with our chosen disease phenotype being pulmonary hypertension (PH). 2 Methodology LLM Phenotyping Pipeline Figure 1 shows the overall architecture of the LLM-based phenotyping model: a RAG approach followed by a MapReduce step for querying and aggregation. Figure 1: Overview of the LLM-based phenotype architecture. Retrieval Considering the extensive volume of text contained within a real world data (RWD) warehouse of EHRs, it becomes impractical to process the entirety of a patient’s clinical notes within the context window of an LLM. To address this challenge, we implemented a RAG approach based on regular expressions (Regex) to identify relevant snippets from the text. As shown in the literature, a RAG approach proves to be more efficient and effective than providing the LLM with larger context windows [13]. We opted for Regex over more complex retrieval models, such as Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency, Cohere’s re-rank [14], or Instructor embeddings [15], in order to avoid introducing bias through additional hyperparameter tuning and to narrow the focus of our work to assessing the LLM’s capability in diagnosing diseases. Although building Regex queries requires domain knowledge which may not be easily extensible to all other disease contexts, we believe that this approach injects useful priors into the model pipeline. Further, some form of retrieval method is necessary as passing the entirety of a patients’ clinical notes through an LLM is intractable given the sheer size of clinical notes, even in the context of a MapReduce paradigm. We divided each clinical note into snippets of 2,048 “tokens” (i.e., the vocabulary of characters, words or subwords an