phrased in causal rather than merely correlative language. In addition, good performance of LLMs on existing tasks may be accounted to their remarkable data-processing and retrieval capabilities using billions of parameters as opposed to their causal reasoning capabilities (Kaddour et al. 2023). Some tasks offer multiple-choice answers to the LLM (Gao et al. 2023; Gordon, Kozareva, and Roemmele 2012; Srivas- tava et al. 2022), but this can enable the model to simply calculate a measure of similarity between the options and the initial premise. A good benchmark should therefore be open-ended rather than multiple choice. Causal reasoning as needed for Type 2 and Type 3 ques- tions in Zhang et al. (2023) requires the ability to handle complex and possibly intersecting factors, but many exist- ing benchmarks only ask simple one-step questions (Sri- vastava et al. 2022; Gao et al. 2023). Benchmarks require multi-factor scalability. They should be able to introduce one, two, or several additional factors and see how perfor- mance changes as complications are added, evaluating the scaling behavior of LLMs. If a machine truly learns algo- rithms to understand causal relations, adding one more vari- able should not make any difference, at least within certain bounds of model capacity. We note the causal chains and natural word chain tasks of Zeˇcevi´c et al. (2023) as a posi- tive example to this end. Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, a pressing con- cern is that tasks rooted in real-world scenarios or contexts allow for retrieval rather than reasoning. This applies to any dataset for which we cannot exclude that its underly- ing causal structure has been (approximately) observed in the pretraining dataset of an LLM. Numerous benchmarks prompt an LLM with a story and then ask for its logical consequences (Srivastava et al. 2022; Gao et al. 2023). For example, “if it’s sunny in the morning and I forget my um- brella, what will happen if it rains in the afternoon?” (more examples can be found in fantasy reasoning(Srivastava et al. 2022)). The issue here is that the LLM does not need to ac- tually reason at all: it can simply access its training dataset, which contains millions of stories about weather and um- brellas, and approximately retrieve a response (Valmeekam et al. 2022). Of course, humans also access their memory when answering questions like this, but we would be equally capable of answering a similar question with fictional or non-informative context purely by reasoning causally. To ac- curately gauge human-level causal reasoning, a benchmark task must therefore not allow for memory retrieval, out- ruling the possibility that an answer has been approximately seen in the pretraining data. We conclude with the following four criteria. We argue that not all of these criteria are ‘necessary’, but they are at least desirable to better demonstrate the causal reasoning capibility of LLMs: 1. Causal rather than correlative: The benchmark should be carefully designed in causal language, to reveal causal, not correlative relations dealing with directional interventions and/or counterfactuals. 2. Open-ended: The