traditional RAG pipeline, the GraphRAG, and the advantages GraphRAG offers over traditional RAG systems. A. Traditional RAG Pipeline A RAG framework begins by retrieving relevant information from pre-constructed external knowledge bases based on 4 Knowledge Integration Direct Integration Tailored Prompt Design Fine-tuning Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario Which of the five Great Lakes are shared by the United States and Canada? User Query Corpus Retrieved Text Summarization Knowledge Graph Lake Erie USA Canada … Mexico Fisheries Subgraph Retrieval Constructing Customized KGs Great Lakes Canada Lake Superior United States Entity/Relation Extraction Relational Triples Subgraph Pruning Refinement Topic Node Selection Indexing with Graphs Query Topic Node Extraction … Topic Linking … Fact Linking Topic Ranking ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Non-graph RAG … … Similarity Ranking The Great Lakes are a group of five large freshwater lakes in North America. They are Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, […] Organized Texts Chunks vec 1 vec 2 vec 3 sen 2 Similarity Calculation Retrieved chunks ✓ ✓ Query Text Chunking sen 1 sen 3 Knowledge Organization Knowledge Retrieval Retrieved Text Summarization Fig. 2: A comprehensive overview of traditional RAG and two typical GraphRAG workflows. Non-graph RAG organizes the corpus into chunks, ranks them by similarity, and retrieves the most relevant text for generating responses. Knowledge-based GraphRAG extracts detailed knowledge graphs from the corpus using entity recognition and relation extraction, offering fine-grained, domain-specific information. Index-based GraphRAG summarizes the corpus into high-level topic nodes, which are linked to form an index graph while fact-linking maps topics to text. This two-layer structure combines efficient topic retrieval with detailed text knowledge, offering scalability and performance compared to Knowledge-based GraphRAG. the query. This information is then used to prompt LLMs, guiding them in constructing credible reasoning chains. As a result, RAG enables LLMs to generate more substantiated and accurate content, effectively minimizing hallucinations and inconsistencies. The traditional RAG pipeline typically comprises three core components: knowledge organization, knowledge retrieval, and knowledge integration. We provide a detailed analysis of traditional RAG systems in Appendix D. 1) Knowledge organization: In traditional RAG systems, knowledge organization involves structuring and preparing external knowledge repositories to facilitate rapid and relevant retrieval when provided with a query. A common strategy is to split the large-scale text corpus into manageable chunks. These chunks are then transformed into embeddings using an embedding model, where the embeddings serve as keys of original text chunks in a vector database [31]–[33]. This setup enables efficient look-up operations and retrieval of relevant content via distance-based search in the semantic space. As a crucial step in the pre-retrieval process, several methods [34], [35] have been proposed to optimize knowledge organization, focusing on two main aspects: granularity opti- mization and indexing optimization. Granularity optimization aims to balance relevance and efficiency, as coarse-grained units provide richer context but risk redundancy and distraction, while fine-grained units may lack semantic integrity and increase the retrieval burden [36], [37].