based on the three KG subgraphs constructed using the multi-path algorithm, we employ LLMs to score the dataset in terms of KG richness, question relevance, and connectivity. The scores assigned by the LLMs are used as training data to train query-aware attention reward model (RM). To incorporate the semantic information of queries into the scoring process of the RM for KGs, we design a query- aware attention mechanism. We model the attention mech- anism between the query vector and the representation of the KG subgraph, thereby emphasizing information regions that are highly relevant to the query semantics and ultimately enhancing the discriminative capability of the reward model. Specifically, we first obtain the semantic representations of the query input 𝑞∈ℝ𝑑and the KG subgraph 𝐾𝐺𝑆∈ℝ𝑑. Then, the query and subgraphs representations are linearly projected into the attention space to generate the Query, Key, and Value vectors used in the attention mechanism: Q = 𝑞⋅𝑊𝑄, K = 𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑖⋅𝑊𝐾, V = 𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑖⋅𝑊𝑉 (6) where, 𝑊𝑄∈ℝ𝑑×𝑑, 𝑊𝐾∈ℝ𝑑×𝑑, and 𝑊𝑉∈ℝ𝑑×𝑑denote trainable weight matrices. We employ a query-aware attention mechanism to com- pute the query-aware response representation of the sub- graph: head = Softmax ( QK⊤ √ 𝑑 ) V (7) Attention(Q, K, V) = Concat(head1, … , headℎ)𝑊𝑂(8) where 𝑊𝑂denotes trainable weight matrices, Concat() de- notes concatenation function. This module design ensures that the reward computation not only depends on the inherent representation of the KG subgraph but also reflects the degree of semantic align- ment with the query, thereby providing improved contextual adaptability and semantic guidance. Subsequently, we apply RM to score the three KG sub- graphs and select the highest-scoring subgraph. The selec- tion process is described by Eq. (9): 𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑚𝑎𝑥= max (𝑅𝑀(𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑜𝑛𝑒ℎ𝑜𝑝 ) , 𝑅𝑀(𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑚𝑢𝑙ℎ𝑜𝑝 ) , 𝑅𝑀(𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑃𝑅 ) ) (9) where max() denotes selecting the highest score from the RM’s outputs and returning the subgraph with the top score. For subgraphs generated from different sources, al- though some subgraphs may have lower scores, they can still contain important triples highly relevant to the query entity. To fully exploit this potential valuable information, we design a similarity-based subgraph fusion method. We compute the similarity between the highest-scoring sub- graph and the query, setting this similarity as a threshold 𝑟. The specific calculation formula is as follows: 𝑟= cos (𝐾𝐺𝑆𝑚𝑎𝑥, 𝑞) (10) For each lower-scoring subgraph 𝐿𝑆𝑖=(h,r,t), we cal- culate the similarity between each triple and the query as follows: sim ((ℎ, 𝑟, 𝑡) , 𝑞) = cos ((ℎ, 𝑟, 𝑡) , 𝑞) (11) If a triple satisfies Eq. (12), it is considered highly relevant to the query and should be retained. All such triples are set as 𝑇𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑. sim((ℎ, 𝑟, 𝑡), 𝑞) ≥𝜏 (12) Finally, the fused subgraph 𝐺𝑓𝑢𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛is obtained by Eq. (13): 𝐺𝑓𝑢𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛= 𝑆𝑢𝑏𝑘𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥∪𝑇𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑 (13) 3.4. Subgraph Utilization In the process of query-aware retrieval, model perfor- mance is often limited by the narrow scope of information coverage and insufficient semantic relevance. To address this issue, we propose a query expansion mechanism en- hanced with a KG. It works together with 𝐺𝑓𝑢𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛to improve