Improving Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models via Data Importance Learning Xiaozhong Lyu1 Stefan Grafberger2 Samantha Biegel1 Shaopeng Wei1 Meng Cao3 Sebastian Schelter2 Ce Zhang1 1ETH Zürich 2 University of Amsterdam 3Apple Abstract Retrieval augmentation enables large language models to take advantage of external knowledge, for example on tasks like question answering and data imputation. However, the performance of such retrieval-augmented models is limited by the data quality of their underlying retrieval corpus. In this paper, we propose an algorithm based on multilinear extension for evaluating the data importance of retrieved data points. There are exponentially many terms in the multilinear extension, and one key contribution of this paper is a polynomial time algorithm that computes exactly, given a retrieval-augmented model with an additive utility function and a validation set, the data importance of data points in the retrieval corpus using the multilinear extension of the model’s utility function. We further proposed an even more efficient (ϵ, δ)-approximation algorithm. Our experimental results illustrate that we can enhance the performance of large language models by only pruning or reweighting the retrieval corpus, without requiring further training. For some tasks, this even allows a small model (e.g., GPT-JT), augmented with a search engine API, to outperform GPT-3.5 (without retrieval augmentation). Moreover, we show that weights based on multilinear extension can be computed efficiently in practice (e.g., in less than ten minutes for a corpus with 100 million elements). 1 Introduction Large language models (LLMs) consisting of neural networks with billions of parameters and trained on vast quantities of unlabelled text are the basis of unprecented progress in natural language processing tasks [6, 20, 21, 13]. With zero-shot or few-shot prompting, LLMs can be adopted for a wide range of diverse tasks, such as question answering [15] summarization [15, 2] and data imputation [17]. Drawbacks of large language models. LLMs, however, have two widely acknowledged disad- vantages [1, 22]. Firstly, despite their impressive capabilities, LLMs actually perform badly on tail entities [1], which they have not seen at training time or cannot remember due to limitations of the network capacity. The second drawback is that with the ever-growing number of model parameters, training, and fine-tuning costs are exploding as well. As a rough estimate, it costs $80k - $1.6m to train a 1.5 billion parameter language model [25, 22, 29]. This makes it difficult to leverage LLMs for tasks that require regularly updated data or that regularly need to remove privacy-sensitive or copyright-protected data [3]. Retrieval-augmented models. To address such problems, retrieval-augmented (RAG) models have recently been proposed [12, 14, 8]. A typical retrieval-augmented model consists of two parts, a retriever fret and a generator fgen. Given a retrieval corpus Dret = {d1, · · · , dM}, the retriever fret retrieves K data points for an input xi as fret(xi, Dret) = {dα1, dα2, ..., dαK}. Here, αk denotes the rank of each data point in the retrieval corpus assigned by the retriever. The generator Preprint. Under review. arXiv:2307.03027v1 [cs.LG] 6 Jul 2023 Generator