since retrievers are generally smaller than autoregressive LLMs used for generation, RAGMask remains computationally tractable compared to generation-stage defenses such as Xiang et al. (2024), which require multiple LLM calls at inference time. 6. Theoretical Analysis In the absence of adversarial documents, we assume that the top-p retrieved results across the (N k ) possible fragment mixes are consistent up to permutation. Let na denote the number of adversarial documents in the corpus, each containing np poisoned fragments. We assume na ≤D −p, ensuring that at least p clean documents remain retrievable. We begin by analyzing the case where na = 1 (the extension to na > 1 is discussed later). For each document, there are (N k ) combinations of fragments that are either (1) fed into the embedding model after mixing (in the naive baseline), or (2) pre-embedded individually and averaged later (in RAGPart). When computing top-p results (e.g., as shown in Figure 1), we construct a matrix of size p × (N k ), where each entry corresponds to a final embedding. In the absence of adversaries, each column would represent a mix of fragments from the same clean document (up to permutation). However, in the presence of a single adversarial document, in the worst-case scenario, instead of observing (N k ) occurrences for each of the top-p clean documents, we may observe (N k ) occurrences for p −1 clean documents, (N k ) −x occurrences for the p-th clean document, and x occurrences for the poisoned mixes. For majority voting to be effective at filtering out poisoned embeddings, we require: x < 1 2(N k ). Naive Baseline. In the naive combination-of-fragments baseline, embeddings are computed after fragment mixing. As a result, any mix that includes even a single poisoned fragment is considered adversarial. The number of such poisoned mixes is: x = (N k ) −( N −np k ). This expression is derived by subtracting the number of fragment mixes that contain no poisoned fragment from the total number of possible mixes. A sufficient condition for robustness in the naive baseline is: (N k ) −( N −np k ) < 1 2(N k ). 11 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation RAGPart. In contrast, RAGPart computes embeddings for individual fragments before mixing, and aggre- gates them via mean pooling. This reduces the influence of any single poisoned fragment. Suppose that a mix is considered poisoned only if it contains at least two poisoned fragments. Then, the number of poisoned mixes is: x = (N k ) −( N −np k ) −np( N −np k −1 ). Here: • (N−np k ) counts the number of clean mixes (no poisoned fragments), • np(N−np k−1 ) counts the number of mixes containing exactly one poisoned fragment, and their sum represents the number of mixes that are not adversarial for RAGPart. Thus, a sufficient condition for robustness in RAGPart is: (N k ) −( N −np k ) −np(