out of N document fragments (without first embedding them) and concatenate the raw text. The resulting text is then passed through the embedding model. A toy example containing a comparison between the two methods is shown later in Figure 2. Since embedding happens after mixing the content, poisoned fragments can—by design—have a significant influence on the final embedding. Once a new set of (N k ) embeddings is formulated to represent each document, we can build (N k ) ⋅D embedding databases for a given corpus of D documents. These databases are used to retrieve (N k ) sets of top-p documents. The retrieved results can then be aggregated to form the final top-p documents to be passed to the generator. We explore two aggregation strategies below: 1. Intersection-based aggregation: From the (N k ) sets of top-p documents, we select only those docu- ments that appear in all of the sets. If no document appears across all sets, we randomly choose p documents from the union of the (N k ) ⋅p retrieved documents. While this approach can reduce the chance of retrieving adversarial documents, it often severely impacts the success rate (SR). As a result, we do not use this strategy in most of our experiments. 2. Majority vote-based aggregation: From the (N k ) sets of top-p documents, we select the p documents that appear most frequently. It is important to note that the ideal k condition for robustness in (Sun et al., 2022), which assumes np < N−1 2 , no longer guarantees robustness in this context. This is because the aggregation now involves selecting the top-p documents by majority vote across combinations, rather than making a decision per combination. Thus, even if the adversarial document is not the top-ranked in most combinations, it may still be retrieved due to frequency. While setting p = 1 can restore the original robustness guarantee, it can greatly reduce utility. Furthermore, the framework in Sun et al. (2022) assumes that an adversary can influence the output if it is present in any single fragment within a combination. To be able to weaken this assumption, we considered the RAGPart framework that minimizes the impact of poisoned fragments even when they are included in some combinations. 5 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Motivated by the shortcomings in majority vote-based aggregation, we analyze the effectiveness of the RAGPart framework compared to the naive combination of fragments in suppressing the effect of adversarial poisons when they are present in fragment combinations. Adversarial tokens are typically designed to increase the likelihood of retrieval when included in a document. This behavior poses a disadvantage for the naive combination approach—since the adversary remains in the raw text before embedding, its influence is preserved, and the resulting embedding can still lead to the document being retrieved. In contrast, in the RAGPart approach, each fragment is embedded independently and then averaged, reducing the influence of individual poisoned fragments. Since the poisons are