produce natural language rationales unveiling the implicit meaning beneath the surface of the memes to justify the rea- son why the meme is harmful or not. This shares a similar intuition as heuristic teaching (Pintrich and Schunk, 2002) where a teacher who has rich experience and knowledge can impart to students the correct way of thinking and reasoning based on questions with corresponding answers. The stu- dents then learn how to deduce their own ways to the correct answers from questions accordingly. Thus we aim to activate explicit reasoning knowl- edge in LLMs as a teacher model, e.g., contextual and cultural information related to memes, to guide our model to strengthen harmfulness prediction. Given a meme sample M = {y, I, T } from the training data, to prompt large language models in uniform language modality, we first extract the text caption ˜I of the image I by off-the-shelf caption- ing models (Mokady et al., 2021). Then we curate a template p that consists of a triplet {y, ˜I, T } as ob- served attributes, to prompt the LLMs to generate a rationale r that elicits the reasoning knowledge about how to infer the harmfulness label y based on the interplay of the meme text T and the image caption ˜I as illustrated in Figure 2. Specifically, we design p as: “Given a Text: [T ], which is embedded in an Image: [˜I]; and a harmfulness label [y], please give me a streamlined rationale associated with the meme, without explicitly indicating the label, for how it is reasoned as [y].” As we clarify the ground-truth harmfulness label in the observed attributes of the prompt, the hallu- cination issue (Bang et al., 2023) of LLMs could be effectively alleviated. Because the rich contex- tual background knowledge could be activated by abductive reasoning based on the ground truth and invalid rationales are naturally filtered out. 3.2 Reasoning Distillation with Small LMs Since we utilize image captions to represent the meme images, we could perform abductive reason- ing with large language models pre-trained with language modality. However, only using the cap- tions as opposed to original vision features may suffer from a lack of mutual synergy in the repre- sentation space of different modalities in memes due to the inductive bias of possible information loss in the captioning process. On the other hand, LLMs can be used to conduct abductive reasoning only for the training data whose harmfulness label is given in prior but is challenging to be fine-tuned for this task due to the huge amount of model pa- rameters. To facilitate the interactions between the meme text and the image, we propose to fine-tune a smaller language model for the harmful meme detection task, which allows flexibility in adjust- ing model architectures to incorporate multimodal features and is more lightweight for task-specific fine-tuning. In this section, we train a small language model as a student model distilled from the LLMs with multimodal reasoning knowledge. Specifically, we leverage generated rationales from LLMs