and nuanced description of positive and negative health eﬀects of cheese consumption is required to satisfy the information need. In contrast, a question such as ‘How much Mozzarella cheese do I need to eat to satisfy my daily requirement of calcium?’ is a complex question with a simple factoid answer.1 Since complex answers include details and context, they often are formu- lated as paragraphs of text. Thus, CAR is framed as paragraph retrieval for a question that has a complex answer. We propose two complementary ap- proaches to identify question facts that are diﬃcult to match, and one knowl- edge graph-based approach to assist in the matching of questions with diﬃcult facets. Due to prior showing that neural models are more eﬀective for CAR than traditional IR techniques [22], we build our approaches into a leading neural ranker to validate our methods. CAR queries can be broken down into two components: the topic and facet. The topic is the main entity of the question. For the query ‘Is cheese healthy?’, the topic is the entity ‘Cheese’ (see Figure 1). All answers to the question must be about this entity, otherwise the answer is not valid. The facet is the particular detail about which the question inquires. In the example, the facet can be described as ‘Health eﬀects’. For an answer to be considered valid to the question, it must refer to health eﬀects of cheese—information such as nutrition, health risks, etc. These answers can come from multiple sources. For instance, an article about cardiovascular disease may claim that diets containing foods such as cheese that are high in saturated fat increase one’s risk of heart disease (Answer 2 in Figure 1). Such a paragraph would be valuable to include in a complete answer because it contains contextual 1 This question is complex because it involves advanced reasoning that goes beyond what is typically captured by a knowledge graph. Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 3 information about why cheese consumption can increase one’s risk of heart disease. Thus, it makes sense to frame CAR as retrieval of paragraphs of text from authoritative sources given a topic and facet. CAR queries with various facts about a single topic can be combined to produce a detailed article about a topic. A straightforward approach for CAR is to simply use an existing IR tech- nique as-is, concatenating the topic and facet information to build the query. However, such an approach is limited by several factors speciﬁc to CAR. We observe that facets are not necessarily mentioned verbatim in relevant para- graphs. In Figure 1, the relevant answers (1-3) never include ‘health’ because the context is clear from the other entities mentioned in the answer. On the other hand, non-relevant answers sometimes do include the facet term (e.g., answer 4). An eﬀective CAR engine needs to account for this. Not all facets exhibit this general behavior. Let’s consider another query: “What is the eﬀect of curdling in cheese production?” (topic: cheese, facet: curdling).