difficulty levels. You only need to provide the course title to the user. Also, please pay attention to how many courses the user wants you to rec- ommend. If you don’t know the answer, just say “I don’t know”. Context Retrieved course data User Question User’s specific question to the generator 3.2.2 Integration of RAG approach As shown in Table 2 below, we employed several LLMs to build our course recommender system. We provide a list of the LLM models we used, along with details on their associated costs and token limits. The token limit refers to the maximum number of tokens (a token represents about 3/4 of a word or four characters, according to Open AI [1]) that the model can process in a single input. While some models, like Llama 2 and Llama 3, are free to use on small- scale dataset, due to their open-source nature, others may incur costs based on usage or subscription plans [27]. Table 2: Cost and token limit of models we used LLM Model Output Cost Token Limit GPT-3.5 Turbo 0.50 per 1M tokens 4,096 tokens GPT-4 30.00 per 1M tokens 8,192 tokens Llama-2 Free 4,096 tokens Llama-3 Free 8,000 tokens We then leveraged the RAG approach to enhance the sys- tem’s understanding of the user context. As shown in Figure ??, RAG consists of two primary components: the retriever and the generator. The retriever aims to enhance the prompt templates, which ‘augment’ the retrieval process, tailoring it to specific user queries. The knowledge base used for the re- trieval process can contain any format of course data (e.g., Figure 2: Workflow for the RAMO System csv, pdf, and json), providing a flexible and rich source of in- formation for generating responses and we used the largest MOOC platform—coursera’s course dataset in csv format as the knowledge base. The dataset was transformed into text embeddings and stored in the vector database. These embeddings were then used to find high-quality, relevant in- formation, which was incorporated into the prompt for the generator. Here we use OpenAI embedding model (text- embedding-ada-002 [29]) to tokenize the course data and store the embeddings in vector store, considering its ad- vantage over BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) [7], while OpenAI embeddings [29] of- fer better generalization and contextual understanding [28], making them more suitable for diverse educational content. The generator is powered by LLMs, which generate the tex- tual contents based on the engineered prompts. To facilitate user’s interaction with the system, we make the recommen- dation process to be completed via conversational manner. The interface of our recommender system is shown in Figure 1, where we listed 5 default courses based on their ratings in the dataset on the web page to make it more user-friendly. As for the implementation of the system, we use GPT-3.5 Turbo, selected for its robust integration with the LangChain [32] framework—a platform designed to streamline the im- plementation of language models in application-specific con- texts. This setup allows the