Beneath the Surface: Unveiling Harmful Memes with Multimodal Reasoning Distilled from Large Language Models Hongzhan Lin1, Ziyang Luo1, Jing Ma1∗, Long Chen2 1Hong Kong Baptist University 2The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology {cshzlin,cszyluo,majing}@comp.hkbu.edu.hk, longchen@ust.hk Abstract The age of social media is rife with memes. Understanding and detecting harmful memes pose a significant challenge due to their implicit meaning that is not explicitly conveyed through the surface text and image. However, existing harmful meme detection approaches only rec- ognize superficial harm-indicative signals in an end-to-end classification manner but ignore in- depth cognition of the meme text and image. In this paper, we attempt to detect harmful memes based on advanced reasoning over the inter- play of multimodal information in memes. In- spired by the success of Large Language Mod- els (LLMs) on complex reasoning, we first con- duct abductive reasoning with LLMs. Then we propose a novel generative framework to learn reasonable thoughts from LLMs for better multimodal fusion and lightweight fine-tuning, which consists of two training stages: 1) Distill multimodal reasoning knowledge from LLMs; and 2) Fine-tune the generative framework to infer harmfulness. Extensive experiments con- ducted on three meme datasets demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves superior per- formance than state-of-the-art methods on the harmful meme detection task. 1 Introduction The development of social media platforms has given rise to a new form of multimodal content known as: meme. A meme typically comprises a picture that is combined with a concise text com- ponent. Memes possess the capacity to quickly spread across the internet, especially on social me- dia platforms, due to their ease of dissemination. While memes are often seen as humorous, there is a potential for harm when the combination of images and texts is strategically used to promote political and sociocultural divisions. For instance as in Fig- ure 1(a), during the COVID-19 pandemic, a widely ∗Jing Ma is the corresponding author. The first two authors contributed equally to this work. circulated meme falsely claimed that the mRNA vaccine would alter human genetic code (DNA)1. Such multimodal disinformation spread caused vac- cine safety and effectiveness concerns, hindering the formation of strong immune defenses in im- pacted areas globally (Basch et al., 2021; Lin et al., 2022). Besides, another meme example shown in Figure 1(b) perpetuates harmful stereotypes and generalizations about Asians. Therefore, it is nec- essary to develop automatic approaches to facilitate harmful meme detection for unveiling the dark side of memes. Harmful memes2 are generally defined as “mul- timodal units consisting of an image and accom- panying text that has the potential to cause harm to an individual, an organization, a community, or the whole society” (Sharma et al., 2022). Previ- ous studies (Kiela et al., 2020; Pramanick et al., 2021a,b) attempted to straightforwardly utilize pre- trained vision-language models (Li et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2019) for harmful meme detection by training additional task-specific classification lay- ers. More recently, Cao et al. (2022) proposed a prompt-tuning method with the meme text and im-