found that the covariance exhibited by a small number of tokens is extremely high, far exceeding the average level. This means that these abnormal tokens play a dominant role in triggering entropy Manuscript submitted to ACM RL Meets LLMs: A Survey of Advancements and Applications Across the LLM Lifecycle 13 collapse. Separating the gradients of high-covariance tokens and preventing their updates from reducing entropy can suppress entropy collapse. Coincidentally, Wang et al. [168] found that only a few high-entropy tokens guide the model’s reasoning paths, and training on just 80% of low-entropy tokens significantly reduces performance. High-entropy tokens (e.g., “however,” “thus,” “because,” “suppose”) handle logical connections, while low-entropy tokens (e.g., affixes, code snippets, mathematical expression components) are used for sentence construction, with other tokens blending both roles. Limiting policy gradient updates to branching tokens can improve RLVR. Li et al. [91] systematically investigated the necessity of explicit thinking processes in rule-based reinforcement fine-tuning for multimodal large language models. Research has shown that for some tasks and models, removing or adjusting the thinking process can actually improve performance and efficiency. Ma et al. [118] questioned the necessity of explicit thinking. This study reveals that using simple prompts to bypass the thinking process yields better results, and it is found that as the k-value increases, the competitiveness of the non-thinking method in the pass@k metric continues to strengthen. Samineni et al. [142] critically analyzed the structural assumptions of reinforcement learning in the post-training of large language models, pointing out that these assumptions reduce RL to filtered iterative supervised fine-tuning. Through theoretical and empirical evidence, it reveals that the increase in response length is a side effect of training settings rather than an improvement in reasoning ability. Zhu et al. [248] decomposed learning signals into two categories: reinforcing correct answers and punishing incorrect ones. Subsequently, it is found that training using only negative samples without reinforcing correct answers may be more effective. Bogdan et al. [13] proposed three methods—black box resampling, attention aggregation for receiver heads, and causal suppression—to identify “thought anchors” pivotal sentences guiding LLM CoT reasoning, validated by the case study and visualization tool. Wu et al. [193] systematically analyzed that Qwen2.5 [136] conducted RLVR training on the model by constructing a clean mathematical dataset under different reward settings. The authors found that Qwen can truly improve its mathematical reasoning ability only when trained on clean data with accurate rewards, emphasizing the importance of data cleanliness and the quality of reward design in evaluating RL methods. Chen et al. [19] analyzed the limitations of the traditional “supervised fine-tuning + reinforcement learning” strategy and found that SFT is prone to generating “pseudo reasoning paths”. This not only fails to effectively enhance complex reasoning abilities but also significantly impairs the performance of the subsequent RL stage. He et al. [55] presented the Trajectory Policy Gradient Theorem (TPGT), showing response-level rewards can estimate token-level rewards for LLM reinforcement learning, introducing the efficient TRePO algorithm, and comparing it to methods like PPO and DPO. Shojaee