Liu, Shuohang Wang, Chenguang Zhu, and Mohit Iyyer. Pearl: Prompting large language models to plan and execute actions over long docu- ments. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14564, 2023. [29] Van Pham and Scott Cunningham. Chatgpt can predict the future when it tells stories set in the future about the past. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.07396, 2024. [30] Shawn Im and Yixuan Li. Understanding the learning dynamics of alignment with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18742, 2024. A APPENDIX A.1 Prompts You are an helpful research assistant , preprocessing { document_types} for {users_types} to use later on. You are provided with a document and a list of questions that aims at extracting key knowledge from this document. Please stricly follow the format below to answer (no introduction or finishing sentences). First , answer the following questions with a single Yes or No only : 1. The paper can be clearly categorized into one or multiple research field(s) (exclusively from: {text_categories }), yes or no?: 2. The paper is mostly an applied research paper (versus mostly theoric), yes or no?: 3. The paper is referencing a Github repository , yes or no? 4. The paper contains mathematical reasoning , yes or no?: 5. The paper mentions a specific application to an industry company , yes or no?: 6. The paper uses evaluations metrics to benchmark their methods , yes or no?: Answer the following questions with a python list only , or return an empty python list: 1. If the paper can be clearly categorized into one or multiple research fields , list the fields (3 max): 2. If the paper is mostly an applied research paper , list the application fields (3 max): 3. If the paper references one or more Github repository , list their urls (2 max): 4. If the paper contains mathematical reasoning , list the name(s) of the theorem(s) being used (3 max): 5. If the paper mentioned a specific application to an industry company , list the companies (3 max): 6. If the paper use evaluations metrics to benchmark their methods , list the names of the metrics (5 max): Your answer must look like the following (no introduction sentence ): 1. Yes 2. No etc. 1. ['a','b'] 2. [] etc. Then , please act as an expert scientists and formulate both general (general understanding) and precise questions (incl. specific findings or limitations) from the content of the document to assess the knowledge of other highly knowledgeable scientists about the topic of this document. Meta Knowledge for Retrieval Augmented Large Language Models Workshop on Generative AI for Recommender Systems and Personalization, KDD 2024, Barcelona, Spain, Scientists that will answer the questions do not know the document . Please do not explicitly refer to "the text" or the name of the document in the questions. Each questions and answers pairs must be self -contained (make sure to give enough context) and independent from other pairs. Please formulate as many questions as possible covering as much content as possible , and avoid bullet