as they practice it less on their own. Both forms of augmentation serve important but distinct purposes in human-AI collaboration. Augmenting demon- strated critical thinking may be particularly valuable in time-sensitive contexts, collaborative workﬂows, or when addressing highly complex problems that exceed individual cognitive capacity. Meanwhile, augmenting performed critical thinking becomes essential for long-term skill development, educational settings, and maintaining human au- tonomy in reasoning. To cultivate performed critical thinking, AI systems need to train and empower users to practice high-quality critical thinking independently. We encourage future research to draw insight from research in educa- tion and learning to identify eﬀective interactive paradigms or features that scaﬀold critical thinking processes rather than simply delivering conclusions. For example, numerous work in education research identify the eﬀective use of questioning, classroom debates, and writing could promote critical thinking in students [21]. Future research could ex- plore similar strategies—such as providing structured frameworks, guiding questions without resolving the analytical process completely— could support users in developing their own critical thinking skills. Table 2. Augmentation Means within the Intellect Augmentation Framework by Engelbart [6] Augmentation Means Description Artifacts Physical objects designed to provide for human comfort, for the manipulation of things or materials, and for the manipulation of symbols. Language The way in which the individual parcels out the picture of his world into the concepts that his mind uses to model that world, and the symbols that he at- taches to those concepts and uses in consciously manipulating the concepts ("thinking"). Methodology The methods, procedures, strategies, etc., with which an individual organizes his goal-centered (problem-solving) activity. Training The conditioning needed by the human being to bring his skills in using Means 1, 2, and 3 to the point where they are operationally eﬀective. Manuscript submitted to ACM Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Thinking 5 5 CONCLUSION The rapid development and integration of AI systems in our everyday lives raises questions not only for their impact on human cognitive abilities but also for established concepts and methodologies in research. Focusing on critical thinking, this position paper identiﬁes the need to further distinguish types of critical thinking in the era of AI: performed versus demonstrated critical thinking. Via such distinction, we discuss the nuances in current research ﬁndings regarding the impact of AI systems on human critical thinking, calling for explicit considerations of this distinction in future studies. More importantly, such a distinction implicates our design of AI systems to augment critical thinking. We encourage researchers and developers to keep this distinction in mind as systems that augment demonstrated critical thinking are not the same as those that augment performed critical thinking. REFERENCES [1] Claudia Alarcón-López, Pius Krütli, and Denis Gillet. 2024. Assessing ChatGPT’s Inﬂuence on CriticalThinking in Sustainability Oriented Activities. In 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON). 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1109/EDUCON60312.2024.10578790 [2] Benjamin S Bloom, Max D Engelhart, EJ Furst, Walker H Hill, and David R Krathwohl. 1956. Handbook I: cognitive domain. New York: David McKay (1956), 483–498. [3] Ching-Yi