arXiv:2504.14689v1 [cs.HC] 20 Apr 2025 Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Thinking KATELYN XIAOYING MEI, University of Washington, USA NIC WEBER, University of Washington, USA The recent rapid advancement of LLM-based AI systems has accelerated our search and production of information. While the ad- vantages brought by these systems seemingly improve the performance or eﬃciency of human activities, they do not necessarily enhance human capabilities. Recent research has started to examine the impact of generative AI on individuals’ cognitive abilities, especially critical thinking. Based on deﬁnitions of critical thinking across psychology and education, this position paper proposes the distinction between demonstrated and performed critical thinking in the era of generative AI and discusses the implication of this distinction in research and development of AI systems that aim to augment human critical thinking. CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing →Human computer interaction (HCI); • Computing methodologies →Ar- tiﬁcial intelligence; Additional Key Words and Phrases: Critical Thinking, Intelligence Augmentation, Social Implications of Technological Design ACM Reference Format: Katelyn Xiaoying Mei and Nic Weber. 2025. Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Think- ing. 1, 1 (April 2025), 6 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Generative AI (GenAI) powered by large language models (LLMs) has boosted productivity in tasks such as writing, coding, information analysis, and decision-making. However, these purported gains in eﬃciency do not always result in better task outcomes or human performance. In addition, the use of these systems could potentially undermine hu- man capabilities as people develop an overreliance on AI systems for tasks ranging from simple to complex [4, 14]. For example, while tools like GitHub Copilot may increase coding quality and eﬃciency [23], the mechanism of autocom- plete does not inherently enhance individuals’ programming skills or understanding [17]. Similarly, while ChatGPT and similar LLMs can increase the speed and improve the ﬂuency of writing deliverables, they do not necessarily improve individuals’ inherent writing abilities and potentially resulting in biased outcomes and content lack of depth[13, 19]. Amidst these ﬁndings, we consider the current landscape of AI tools reveals a concerning pattern: the design of AI systems is often output-driven yet overlooks its impact on human cognitive capabilities. Recent research has started to pay attention to how generative AI (GenAI) impacts individuals’ critical thinking and researchers have found mixed This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. Authors’ addresses: Katelyn Xiaoying Mei, kmei@uw.edu, University of Washington, , Seattle, WA, USA, ; Nic Weber, nmweber@uw.edu, University of Washington, , Seattle, WA, USA, . Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is