systems to access and provide up-to-date information. A.5 Acceptance Criteria The AI application will be considered complete when it meets all the functional and non-functional requirements outlined and successfully fulﬁlls the stakeholder requirements. A.6 Stakeholders 1. Solution Architect team 2. Development team 3. Quality Assurance team 4. Performance testing team 5. Technology risk management team 6. Enterprise production support teams 7. Network and infrastructure teams 8. Shared services teams 9. Customer support end users 10. Legal, compliance, and regulatory teams 11. Executive leadership team, including heads of engineering, strategy, marketing, training, and documentation organizations within the company. 30 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented Generation A.7 Measures of effectiveness A.7.1 Technical • Response should be relevant to the question asked. • Response should be accurate, factual, and generated based on the existing documentation. • Each response should provide citation links to the documentation from which the response was generated. • Responses should be consistent every time the same question is asked. The response can be aesthetically different (worded differently), but the content should be the same. A.7.2 Human • The system should be easy to use, user-friendly, and intuitive. • The system should be reliable and robust so users can use it without double-checking the cited documents. • The users should be provided with a consistent interface such that any changes to the back-end technology should be agnostic to the user. B Pre-survey Questionnaire 1. The ﬁrst few questions are related to personal information such as name, team, age, department, years of service in the organization, designation, etc. 2. Have you used a generative AI application? 3. How do you think using generative AI would help you and your team to be more efﬁcient? 4. How do you think generative AI can help with cross-functional teams? 5. What are your expectations from the Information Retrieval System using Generative AI? 6. Do you have any concerns with using generative AI applications? 7. What data or information do you expect the generative AI application to give? 8. Any additional inputs, comments, or notes. B.1 Analysis from the pre-survey 1. Question 1: This data is redacted for privacy reasons. The team of pilot users was across various departments in the organization. 2. Question 2: 54% of users have some prior experience using generative AI at various levels of expertise. 3. Question 3: Users are looking for overall accuracy and relevance of retrieved information, help with trou- bleshooting, fast access to information, speciﬁcs about products and releases, etc. About 8% of the users were not sure if AI can make them or their teams more efﬁcient. 4. Question 4: Users are looking to reduce cross-functional team communications and meetings, as with the AI application, everyone would have quick access to everything. The users are expecting a signiﬁcant increase in efﬁciency. About 8% of users are “unsure but excited to ﬁnd out.” 5. Question 5: Most users were excited about the new application. Some even believed in endless possibilities, and some were excited about