into Industry 4.0, IIoT, IAIoT, and IoRT, showcasing the impact on au- tomation and robotics. It discusses IoT challenges, benefits of AI in data analysis, and presents case studies like oil field production optimization and smart robotics by companies like ABB and Boeing. The future of IoT/AI integration promises transformative advancements in various sectors.” V. RESULT AND DISCUSSION The study introduced three procedures for automated lit- erature review generation. The research work also illustrates the performance comparison between various NLP approaches such as the frequency-based method (spaCy), transformer model (Simple T5), and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with LLM (GPT-3.5-turbo). All three procedures are im- plemented and the ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2, ROUGE-L, and ROUGE-Lsum scores are calculated based on the Test dataset. For all three approaches, the ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2 scores are found above the acceptable mark. From the evaluation, it is seen that the GPT-3.5-turbo model produced results with higher ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2 scores than the SpaCy and T5. The overall ROUGE-1 score for the LLM is 0.364 while the score for T5 is 0.268 and spaCy is 0.257. It shows that the LLM-generated summaries have better unigram and bigram overlapping with human summaries. The transformer T5 is also an advanced model which comes in second place. The last position is occupied by the frequency- based spaCy model. From the scores, it is clear that the most advanced models are LLMs which outperformed all other NLP techniques. But other approaches such as transformer models and frequency- based approaches are also capable of producing satisfactory ROUGE scores and a coherent literature review segment. VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPES The research focused on implementing and comparing vari- ous NLP techniques for automated literature review. All three implemented systems are successful in generating the coherent Literature Review segment of a research paper. The results of various Natural Language Processing techniques such as the Frequency-based approach, Transformer model, and Large Language Model are also successfully obtained and compared. Based on the comparisons, the LLM-based approach is proven to be the best-performing one based on ROUGE-N scores. Thus, based on the LLM, a final system tool is also success- fully developed where the user can upload multiple PDF files to automatically generate a coherent literature review segment. Future work of this research work can be focused on enhancing the effectiveness and applicability of the developed system tool. More functionality can be added to the Graphical User Interface such as model options, output size, etc. More models such as Bert, Gemini, and LLaMA can be utilized to find better results. [6] da Silva Ju´nior EM, Dutra ML. A roadmap toward the automatic composition of systematic literature reviews. Iberoamerican Journal of Science Measurement and Communication. 2021 Jul 27. [7] Yuan W, Liu P, Neubig G. Can we automate scientific reviewing?. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. 2022 Sep 29;75:171-212. [8] Karakan B, Wagner S, Bogner J. Tool support for systematic literature reviews: Analyzing existing solutions and the potential for automation (Doctoral dissertation, University of Stuttgart). [9] Jaspers S, De Troyer