FS-RAG: A Frame Semantics Based Approach for Improved Factual Accuracy in Large Language Models Harish Tayyar Madabushi The University of Bath, Bath, UK htm43@bath.ac.uk Abstract We present a novel extension to Retrieval Aug- mented Generation with the goal of mitigating factual inaccuracies in the output of large lan- guage models. Specifically, our method draws on the cognitive linguistic theory of frame se- mantics for the indexing and retrieval of factual information relevant to helping large language models answer queries. We conduct experi- ments to demonstrate the effectiveness of this method both in terms of retrieval effectiveness and in terms of the relevance of the frames and frame relations automatically generated. Our results show that this novel mechanism of Frame Semantic-based retrieval, designed to improve Retrieval Augmented Generation (FS-RAG), is effective and offers potential for providing data-driven insights into frame se- mantics theory. We provide open access to our program code and prompts1. 1 Introduction, Motivation and Context Large language models (LLMs), despite their sig- nificant capabilities and widespread adoption have the inherent tendency to generate plausible sound- ing, yet inaccurate, output. This phenomenon, re- ferred to as “hallucinations,” has been a significant stumbling block in the widespread deployment of these solutions (Ji et al., 2023). Hallucinations themselves are not limited to factual inaccuracies, and include other modes of failure, including the incorrect interpretation of input prompts and errors in logical inference. However, factual hallucina- tions are particularly important to address as the retrieval of incorrect facts is particularly hard to re- cover from and can neutralise and make irrelevant all other improvements. The capabilities of LLMs typically improve with an increase in their “size,” which is a combination 1https://github.com/H-TayyarMadabushi/A-Frame- Semantics-based-approach-for-Improved-Factual-Accuracy- in-Large-Language-Models of a model’s parameters and the size of the pre- training corpus. Until recently, this was seen by some as being evidence that further scaling would eventually address the shortcomings of LLMs, in- cluding hallucinations. For example, LLMs were claimed to develop “emergent abilities”: specifi- cally, it was believed that LLMs, when scaled to several billion parameters developed capabilities in- cluding those required to solve tasks requiring rea- soning in humans, thus indicative that they were de- veloping reasoning skills (Wei et al., 2022b). More recent work, however, has shown that this is not the case and that LLMs instead develop a single capa- bility, which they leverage to solve tasks (Lu et al., 2023). This capability, called “in-context learning,” is, roughly put, the ability of models to solve a par- ticular task based on a few examples provided in the prompt (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al., 2023). (Lu et al., 2023) further suggest that the process of instructional fine-tuning LLMs to un- derstand instructions (Wei et al., 2022a), enables models to leverage the same “in-context” abilities even in the absence of examples. This finding indi- cates that further scaling, while providing improved instruction following abilities, will not grant modes the broader capacity to for general reasoning. The fact that LLMs are not likely to develop the