using ROUGE scores which contributes towards finding the effectiveness of these approaches for this task. III. SYSTEM DESIGN The research is carried out in four stages: 1. Defining research objectives. 2. Proposing multiple procedures for au- tomated literature review generation. 3. Evaluating multiple procedures to find the best approach. 4. The final system development. A. Dataset Selection The SciTLDR dataset from the Hugging Face is selected for this research work [13]. It contains the summarization of scientific documents. It is a dataset with 5,400 TLDRs derived from over 3,200 papers. It contains both author-written and expert-derived TLDRs of scientific documents. Curated research articles’ abstract, introduction, and conclusion (AIC) or full text of the paper are given as ”source” and the summaries of the corresponding articles are given as ”target”. Only these two attributes are utilized in all three proposed procedures. There is no training for the spaCy approach, but the dataset is utilized for testing purposes. The T5 model is trained using the SciTLDR dataset for the transformer-based approach and later evaluated on the test dataset. For the LLM- based approach, this dataset is used as the knowledge base for the model. B. The Procedure Utilizing the Frequency-Based Approach using spaCy The first procedure utilizes the frequency-based approach by using spaCy. The first task is to build the model pipeline. The model pipeline takes text as input and converts the text into NLP tokens using the spaCy library. Then preprocessing step is done by removing stop words and punctuation. Afterward, the word frequency is calculated for each word which later helps to calculate individual sentence weights. This sentence weight represents the importance of that sentence. Then the top 10 percent of sentences are selected as the final output. The model is later evaluated using ROUGE scores to get an overview of the performance. The overview of the spaCy Model is given in Figure 1. Figure 1: Building spaCy Model The next step is to implement a system pipeline by using the spaCy model to generate a literature review segment automatically. The system takes the DOI and PDF files of multiple papers as input. It uses the Requests library to collect the paper titles and first author names from the DOI. Then it uses PYPDF2 and Regular Expression (RE) libraries to collect only the conclusion of each PDF. Then it uses the previously implemented spaCy model to get a summary of each paper. Later it performs post-processing and merges all summaries to produce a coherent literature review segment. The system pipeline overview of the spaCy Model is given in Figure 2. Figure 2: Pipeline using spaCy C. The Procedure Utilizing the Transformer-Based T5 Model The second approach utilizes the transformer-based Simple T5 model. The first task is to train the model and prepare the model for the final pipeline. The SciTLDR dataset is collected to train the model. Then the dataset is prepared to use as the training data for the selected model. A task-specific prefix is added to summarize individual