the adversary remains in the raw text before embedding, its influence is preserved, and the resulting embedding can still lead to the document being retrieved. In contrast, in the RAGPart approach, each fragment is embedded independently and then averaged, reducing the influence of individual poisoned fragments. Since the poisons are not optimized to dominate the mean of multiple embeddings, their effectiveness naturally decreases. Designing adaptive poisons to counteract this is difficult: it would require crafting embeddings with unusually large norms, which is hard to achieve in practice and can be mitigated by anomaly detection in embedding space. This distinction between the naive combination method and RAGPart is illustrated with a toy example using N = 3 and k = 2 in Figure 2. 3.2. Defense: RAGMask The idea of RAGMask takes inspiration from perturbation-based defenses. The idea behind perturbation-based defenses Yang et al. (2021) is to analyze the behavior of a given sample in the presence of perturbations and make decisions accordingly. In the case of RAG, if the addition of a poison to a document makes it retrievable, then masking or occluding that token should cause a substantial drop in the similarity score between the document and the intended query. We leverage this insight to design the RAGMask defense, as shown in Figure 3, in the following way. Given a corpus of documents D and a query q, we first convert them into embeddings using the retriever model. We then retrieve the top αp documents, where α > 1. Assume that the length of a single document is li tokens. Each document has an initial similarity score v q i with respect to the query. For each of the top αp documents, we divide the document into li m segments, where m is a predefined hyperparameter representing the mask length. We mask the document at each of these li m positions and recompute the similarity score between the query and the masked version of the document, denoted by v q i ′. If v q i ′ + δ > v q i , we keep the masked tokens in the document; otherwise, we discard them. After li m ⋅αp such operations, we obtain a new set of partially masked documents, which we refer to as sanitized documents. Since retrievers are generally much smaller than LLMs, these operations can be parallelized efficiently to maintain acceptable time complexity. We then recompute the similarity between the sanitized documents and the query q, re-rank the αp documents, and finally select the top p as the final set of retrieved documents. 3.3. Attack: AdvRAGgen In addition to the attacks discussed in the Experiments section, and inspired by the work of AdvBDGen (Pathmanathan et al., 2024), we propose an interpretable attack against RAG retrieval, called AdvRAGgen. The idea behind this attack is to use a general-purpose causal language model that takes in a query and an adversarial document and generates a paraphrase of the adversarial document such that it is retrieved. The generator is