(con- text, response) pairs for dialogue generation. These pairs are retrieved from the database and serve as demonstration examples to guide a LLM in con- ducting text generations. The underlying rationale of this paradigm is that better demonstrations typi- cally prompt better generation outcomes. Q2. Why applying such partitioning, what in- tuition behind that, instead of improving the quality of retrieval or introduce more dimen- sions in the scoring function to account for cate- gories/partitions? We recognize that database partitioning plays a crucial role in efficiently managing a database. However, this aspect has been relatively underex- plored in the context of RAG, despite the necessity of accessing an external database to obtain essential information for LLM generation. To address this gap, we investigate a multiple partition paradigm for executing RAG. The rationale behind this ap- proach is intuitive: with various attributes associ- ated with the data in a database, queries should ide- ally be matched with their corresponding attributed data, thereby filtering out noise data. We discuss our choice of employing partitioning for RAG instead of two alternative approaches: (1) improving the quality of retrieval or (2) introduce more dimensions in the scoring function to account for categories/partitions. For (1), improving retrieval quality typically em- phasizes the effectiveness of AKNN search, often measured using metrics such as recall. However, this focus is not entirely aligned with the primary objective of RAG, which is to generate a good re- Table 8: Machine translation with BLEURT and COMET. LLM RAG BLEURT COMET Es→En En→Es De→En En→De Es→En En→Es De→En En→De Mixtral 8 × 7B Selfmem 63.63 53.26 59.93 59.91 75.65 55.28 60.41 52.13 Mixtral 8 × 7B M-RAG 71.74 63.66 66.77 70.99 82.66 80.29 67.33 85.14 sponse. In the M-RAG framework, we prioritize the quality of LLM generation as an end-to-end metric explicitly guiding the retrieved information. For (2), unlike attending to data categories or partitions, we observe that the multiple partition setup offers a cost-effective approach to enhance effectiveness, as confirmed in Figure 1. In this context, no additional computation associated with the LLM is required. Instead, we can keep the LLM frozen, and explore (via Agent-S) or revise (via Agent-R) a relevant memory. This typically leads to improved generation results for the LLM. Q3. What is the motivation of the Agent-R and the revision of the retrieved memory? M-RAG involves a Retrieval-then-Generation pro- cess employing LLMs, typically containing bil- lions of parameters. Here, the LLM remains frozen while the retrieved memories undergo revision be- fore being fed back into the LLM to enhance results. Common revision operations within the retrieved memory, such as re-ranking content (Blagojevi, 2023), eliminating irrelevant context (Anderson et al., 2022), summarizing key information (Chen et al., 2023), and generating candidates for selec- tion (Cheng et al., 2023b), have been extensively studied in retrieval-augmented literature, as high- lighted in the survey paper (Gao et al., 2023). In our work, we conceptualize memory revision as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) and investigate a reinforcement learning solution employing the