on a corpus of English text with a Masked Language Model ob- jective [24]. As shown in Section 5.1, the pre-trained model fails to achieve the property Equation (3), hence in the next section, we detail the proposed solution to ﬁnetune the lan- guage model with a semi-supervised approach to make it suitable for our retrieval task. 4.3. Optimization strategy Natural Language Branch. We decided to train the Vi- sual branch and the NL branch in separate stages. For the latter, we aim to enforce the property deﬁned in Equa- tion (3), via a BERT ﬁne-tuning performed in a semi- supervised fashion. To fulﬁll this purpose, we adopt the Triplet Margin Loss (TML) function[3, 22, 23, 29] T L(A, P, N) = 1 Bs Bs X i=1 max(0, d(Ai, P i) −d(Ai, N i) + m) (4) By minimizing the TML, the distance from the baseline (anchor) input Ai to the positive input P i is reduced to be less than the distance from the baseline (anchor) input to the negative input N i at least of m. Given a tracking sequence, a random textual description ti1 j1 is selected out of the tree to serve as anchor, another description ti1 j2 is selected as positive example and a third description ti2 j is sampled as negative from a randomly se- lected sequence. For the LSO approach, we use the same procedure. How- ever, in this case, the positive input and the anchors are a concatenated random permutation of the same set of NL de- scriptions. Following the same concept, the negative input is the concatenation of the NL description set of a differ- ent sequence. In Section 5.1 we detail the exact setup used for the ﬁnal training of the visual branch, and we provide a comparison between the LSO and LTO approaches. Visual Branch. The Visual branch is trained with a metric-learning objective: after deﬁning a distance func- tion between the embedding V i1 resulting from a visual in- put vi1 and a generic embedding T i2 obtained by the NL branch; the Visual branch is trained to reduce d(V i1, T i2) with i1 = i2 to be less than the same distance with i1 ̸= i2 at least of m. The exact deﬁnition of d depends on the considered con- ﬁguration of the Visual branch (VTO or VSO) and of the Language branch (LTO or LSO). A schematic summary of the explored combination is reported in Table 1. Model Visual Branch Language Branch VSO VTO LSO LTO VS-LT ✓ ✓ VS-LS ✓ ✓ VT-LT ✓ ✓ Table 1: Different experimented combination of Language and Visual branches. The best results have been obtained with the VT-LT ap- proach, therefore hereafter the exact optimization process for this solution is detailed. The overall procedure is sim- ilar for other combinations, mainly differing for the deﬁni- tion of the distance measure used in the loss function. The loss function used is the TML deﬁned in Equa- tion (4). In this