a given heading appears in relevant paragraphs. More formally: occ(h) = P p∈rel(h) I(∃t ∈p|t ∈h) |rel(h)| where rel(h) is the set of relevant paragraphs for p and I is the indicator func- tion. Although the term occurrence rate only accounts for a single binary term match within relevant documents, this assumption is justiﬁed by the fact that headings are usually terse, and the neural architecture we use only considers the top 2 matches for each query term for ranking purposes (PACRR’s query term pooling). In Figure 6, we plot a kernel density estimation of term occurrence distri- butions for each heading position. We use all topics from the training dataset, and calculate term occurrence rates using automatic relevance judgments. The ﬁgure shows that main headings are much more likely to appear in relevant documents than titles and intermediate headings, with a much higher density at the term occurrence rate of 1. This matches our prediction that main head- ings are more likely to be topical, and therefore appear in relevant documents. Furthermore, the distributions of intermediate and title headings are roughly opposite each other, with titles more likely to occur than intermediate head- ings. Note that, due to the hierarchical nature of CAR queries, intermediate headings also appear as main headings in other queries for the same topic. This contributes to the high frequency of main headings with a term occur- rence rate of 0. Furthermore, many main headings are only used in a single article (i.e., only appear once in the Wikipedia collection), with only a handful of paragraphs associated with them. This explains the multi-modal distribu- tion seen for main headings; the small denominators result in local maxima near 0.33, 0.5, and 0.67. Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval 19 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 Heading frequency 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 Term occurrence rate Fig. 7 Term occurrence rate plotted by heading frequency. Heading frequency is grouped and averaged by 100 for clarity. The area of each point is proportional to the number of heading instances used to calculate the term occurrence rate. One very high frequency heading (History) was omitted for clarity (heading frequency: 15,220, term occurrence rate: 0.035). The trend shows that low-frequency headings are more likely to appear verbatim in relevant paragraphs than high-frequency headings. 5.2 Characteristics of high-frequency headings In Section 4.2, we showed that including the heading frequency contextual vector improved retrieval performance. We predicted that the model is able to use this information to predict which query terms are likely to appear in relevant documents. To investigate this behavior, we look at whether heading frequency is correlated with term occurrence rates, and whether there is a performance gap between low- and high-frequency headings. In Figure 7, we plot term occurrence rates by heading frequency. The ﬁg- ure only includes headings that occur at least twice in train.fold0, and we remove the extremely-frequent heading ‘History’ to improve readability, and points are binned with a size of 100.