subgraphs, resulting in a more informative and query-aligned KG subgraph. 4. A KG-based query expansion approach is presented, enriching the original query with entities, relations, and triples from the final subgraph to improve the quality and factual consistency of RAG outputs. 2. Related Work In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive performance in both comprehension and text generation, especially within the context of open-domain QA tasks[16, 25]. They have been widely applied in areas such as QA systems [29, 11, 32], code generation [17, 15, 1]. However, LLMs’ heavy reliance on static knowledge embedded in their parameters. When applied to scenarios characterized by rapidly evolving information and high factual requirements, LLMs are prone to producing outdated or factually inaccurate responses. This limitation frequently leads to hallucinations, thereby undermining the overall quality and trustworthiness of the generated outputs [39, 38]. To mitigate the aforementioned limitations, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a technique that combines information retrieval with text generation, aiming to improve the accuracy of generated content and reduce hallucinations Q. Wei et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 2 of 13 Leveraging social media news by incorporating support from external documents [9]. The typical workflow involves two stages: first, a retrieval model is used to fetch relevant information from external knowl- edge sources based on the user’s query; then, this retrieved content is input into LLMs to integrate the information and generate a response. RAG for LLMs RAG has emerged as a mainstream approach for mit- igating hallucination issues in LLMs due to its ability to retrieve relevant factual content. By introducing external factual knowledge during the inference process, RAG pro- vides contextual support for LLMs, thereby enhancing the factual consistency and reliability of the generated content [3, 18, 34]. Existing LLM-based RAG methods can be broadly categorized into two paradigms: document retrieval- based RAG and graph retrieval-based RAG. For document retrieval–based RAG, embedding serves as a critical component. It determines the ability to vectorize text, bringing semantically similar content closer in the vector space. The common method is to divide long text into several chunks, which weakens the semantic integrity and context coherence. To address this, Luo et al. [13] proposed Landmark Embedding, which employs a sliding-window embedding training method that preserves contextual consis- tency and enhances the model’s ability to represent extended text. Additionally, to enrich the semantic content of user queries, Wang et al. [27] introduced a method that uses a few-shot prompting strategy to guide LLMs in generating pseudo-documents. These are concatenated with the original queries to form augmented queries, allowing the retrieval process to incorporate both the foundational knowledge of the LLMs and the content of external documents. Shi et al. [23] proposed Genground, a model that first uses the query as input to an LLM to generate a base answer, and then refines potential errors in this answer using retrieved content. For graph retrieval-based RAG methods, graphs are typ- ically integrated with the RAG framework to enhance the model’s generalization capability