efficiency. However, our empirical study in Table II reveals that existing rank-based methods underper- form in difficult query workloads and long-context scenarios, presenting three key challenges. Challenge 1: Relationships between chunks. There are two main methods to identify relevant chunks. The first uses approximate k-nearest neighbor (AKNN) to rank and select top-k chunks [34]. The second clusters chunks and returns all chunks in the most relevant clusters [6], [13]. However, AKNN disregards correlations entirely, and clustering treats all chunks in a cluster as equally relevant, leading to redundancy when chunks have overlapping information. For example, in Figure 1, querying the height and history of the Eiffel Tower using the AKNN method would select χ3 and χ1, which only provide historical details, failing to address the query fully. However, the clustering approach returns all chunks (χ1, χ2, χ3, χ4), causing redundancy. The optimal solution is to select χ3 and χ4, avoiding redundancy while meeting the query’s intent. In addition, previous work [35], [36] demonstrates that information position significantly affects RAG performance, a phenomenon known as “lost in the middle” [35]. For instance, placing χ4 before χ3 yields better results. However, finding the best chunk combination and order is challenging due to the exponentially growing search space, and we prove this problem is NP-hard in Section II. Challenge 2: Non-monotonicity of utility. Current solutions are typically based on the assumption that including more chunks will yield better final results. Specifically, in the AKNN-based approach, exactly k chunks are selected each time. In the clustering approach, a distance threshold between clusters and the query is fixed, and all clusters within this threshold are returned. Both of them return as many chunks as possible. However, in practice, the utility of chunks is not monotonic. More specifically, excessive chunks can dilute key information by adding marginally relevant content, creating noise that reduces clarity. Additionally, conflicting or nuanced differences across chunks may confuse the model, leading to hallucinations. For example, as illustrated in Figure 1, when χ3 and χ4 are selected, adding chunk χ1 decreases utility, highlighting that utility scores are often non-monotonic. Challenge 3: Diversity of queries. Users’ queries have different types, requiring different ranking strategies due to their unique characteristics [15], [37]. Current RAG systems predominantly rely on a single reranker model [30], [38] to determine chunks’ utility scores. Although various reranker models have been developed, their performance varies sig- nificantly by query types, with no single model consistently outperforming others across all variations (as shown in our preliminary experiments in Fig. 5). Current RAG systems [12], [28] lack the flexibility to adapt to varying query intentions. Problem Statement. Is there a RAG framework that achieves both high efficacy and efficiency while maintaining acceptable computational costs? Our contributions. We answer this question by proposing a novel rank-based RAG framework named cost-constrained retrieval optimization (CARROT). On one hand, CARROT is a rank-based framework, thus having much higher efficiency than graph-based and tuning-based methods. On the other hand, it considers chunks correlation, non-monotonicity, and query intent