LLM-generated annotations [23]. Card et al. (2020) revealed the prevalence of underpowered experiments in NLP, particularly in popular benchmarks, highlight- ing the importance of power analysis in experimental design [4]. Together, these works offer valuable information for designing sta- tistically sound experiments and reliable evaluation procedures for LLMs. 3 Experimental Design We evaluated several metrics, including Cohen’s Kappa [7], Krippen- dorff’s Alpha [18], Spearman’s rank correlation [28], Kendall’s Tau [15], percent agreement and two extensions of Gwet’s AC2 with lin- ear weighting schemes (Gwet AC2-L) and quadratic (Gwet AC2-Q) [12]. While we did not evaluate every available IRR metric, such as Fleiss’s Kappa [9] and the Brennan-Prediger coefficient [3], our aim was to emphasize the importance of utilizing a diverse set of metrics rather than conducting an exhaustive analysis of all available IRR metrics.e evaluated several metrics, including Cohen’s Kappa [7], Krippendorff’s Alpha [18], Spearman’s rank correlation, Kendall’s Tau, percent agreement and two extensions of Gwet’s AC2 with linear weighting schemes (Gwet AC2-L) and quadratic (Gwet AC2- Q). While we did not evaluate every available IRR metric, such as Fleiss’s Kappa and the Brennan-Prediger coefficient, our aim was to emphasize the importance of utilizing a diverse set of metrics rather than conducting an exhaustive analysis of all available IRR metrics. As a leading provider of legal information services, Bloomberg Law faces unique challenges in evaluating RAG systems. Legal content 2 LLM-as-a-Judge: Rapid Evaluation of Legal Document Recommendation for Retrieval-Augmented Generation requires high accuracy standards, as even minor errors could impact critical legal decisions. Additionally, the proprietary nature of our content and systems, combined with client confidentiality require- ments, creates constraints on sharing detailed system specifications or complete evaluation results. Our evaluation was conducted on two legal RAG systems operating over a comprehensive legal corpus reflecting real production challenges at Bloomberg Law where we evaluate thousands of legal query-document pairs monthly across multiple products. Each RAG system consists of two critical compo- nents: a retrieval component that identifies relevant legal documents, and an answer generation component that synthesizes the retrieved information into coherent responses. We compared two distinct legal RAG systems. System A utilizes tra- ditional BM25 retrieval combined with an open-source LLM summa- rizer applied to the top 5 retrieved documents. System B incorporates improvements in the retrieval system and employs the proprietary GPT-4 model by OpenAI as the summarizer. This comparison reflects realistic industry scenarios and evaluates significant technologi- cal enhancements and their practical impacts on recommendation quality. Our evaluation framework specifically targeted both these components: the retrieval effectiveness through search relevancy assessment, and the generation quality through answer evaluation. For search relevancy, we evaluated passage-query pair relevance on a scale of 1 to 4, while the answer quality assessment examined multiple dimensions including relevance, conciseness, readability, completeness, and extrinsic hallucination using the same scale of 1 to 4, while the answer quality assessment examined multiple dimen- sions including relevance, conciseness, readability, completeness, and extrinsic hallucination using the same scale [26]. The evaluation dataset consisted of 117 anonymized legal