pipeline on the NQ dataset Model/Pipeline EM F1 Top-5 Top-20 GLaM (Oneshot) [13] 26.3 GLaM (Zeroshot) [13] 24.7 PaLM540B (Oneshot) [14] 29.3 Blended RAG (Zero- shot) 42.63 53.96 88.22 88.88 VI. DISCUSSION While RAG is a commonly used approach in the industry, we realized during the course of this study that various challenges still exist, like there are no standard datasets on which both R (Retriever) and RAG benchmarks are available. Retriever is often studied as a separate problem in the IR domain, while RAG is studied in the LLM domain. We thus attempted to bring synergy between the two domains with this work. In this section, we share some learning on limitations and appropriate use of this method. A. Trade-off between Sparse and Dense Vector Indices The HotPotQA corpus presents substantial computational challenges with 5M documents, generating a dense vector index to an approximate size of 50GB, a factor that signif- icantly hampers processing efficiency. Dense vector indexing, characterized by its rapid indexing capability, is offset by a relatively sluggish querying performance. Conversely, sparse vector indexing, despite its slower indexing process, offers expeditious querying advantages. Furthermore, a stark contrast in storage requirements is observed; for instance, the sparse vector index of the HotPotQA corpus occupied a mere 10.5GB as opposed to the 50GB required for the dense vector equiv- alent. In such cases, we recommend sparse encoder indexes. Furthermore, for enterprises with this volume, we found it better to use multi-tenancy with federated search queries. B. Blended Retrievers without Metadata When datasets are enriched with metadata or other relevant informational facets, they improve the efficacy of blended retrievers. Conversely, for datasets devoid of metadata, such TABLE VI: Top-5 retrieval accuracy CoQA Dataset COQA BM25+MQ BM25+BF KNN+MQ KNN+BF SE+MQ SE+BF Top-5 45.3 45.3 47.56 47.56 49.94 49.94 as CoQA, it is not as impressive. You can see the results in Table VI. The absence of metadata in the CoQA dataset resulted in hybrid queries offering no improvement over basic queries. This limitation underscores the critical role of metadata in enhancing the efficacy of complex query structures. However, Sparse Encoder-based semantic searches still yield the most favorable outcomes than traditional methods. Additionally, we would like to note that while NDCG@10 scores for Retriever and F1,EM scores for RAG are commonly used metrics, we found them to be poor proxies of Generative Q&A systems for human alignment. Better metrics to evaluate the RAG system is a key area of future work. VII. CONCLUSION Blended RAG pipeline is highly effective across multiple datasets despite not being specifically trained on them. No- tably, this approach does not necessitate exemplars for prompt engineering which are often required in few-shot learning, indicating a robust generalization capability within the zero- shot paradigm. This study demonstrated: • Optimization of R with Blended Search: Incorporating Semantic Search, specifically Sparse Encoder indices coupled with ’Best Fields’ queries, has emerged as the superior construct across all, setting a new benchmark of 87% for Retriever Accuracy on TREC-COVID. • Enhancement of RAG