element to the topic. The third topic revolves around time, spacial orientation (right, inside, door), physical attributes (head, eyes, long, hand), and a frog. The inclusion of ‘long’ might suggest a temporal or duration-related aspect. The last topic highlights time, spatial orientation (right, inside, door), ob- jects (ream, frog), physical attributes (head, eyes, small), and the action of starting something. The modern stories’ topic modeling results suggest a re- curring theme involving concepts such as time, spa- tial orientation, objects, and actions. Each topic em- phasizes different aspects and introduces additional elements like fairies or physical attributes. Figure 4 represents the level of similarity and difference be- tween the real stories and the LLM-generated sto- ries. There are greater similarities between these stories than there appear to be differences in the main topics. As expected, the results of the topic modeling showed similarities between the original 122 sto- ries in the training corpus and the stories gener- ated by the LLMs. These stories shared fairy tale and fantasy elements as well as topics of good- ness, greatness, time, and setting elements of night, houses, and the color white. Once we compare this with the modern stories, we see that the focus of the small data set we have is similarly focused on time and fairies, but has more topics relating to spatial orientation. We are likely seeing a change in the content of stories written for children. With only ten modern stories, we cannot reliably generalize over all stories, but we noticed tendencies such as that the modern story set did tend to involve more overtly educational elements aimed at younger age groups when compared to the older stories. 8 Generated stories do not have similar sentence structure to original stories Table 3 shows the percentage of overlapping Weis- feiler Lehman hashes between the dependency tree graphs of sentences generated by various models and those actual children’s stories, both old and modern. We also got an overlap of 35.57 percent- age between old and modern actual stories, which is greater than all the values in Table 3. This shows that the structure of sentences in children’s liter- ature has changed over time, which supports our earlier findings that children’s literature has under- gone noticeable changes over time. Additionally, we observe a higher percentage of overlap between old original stories and the stories generated by OPT and LLaMA, which again aligns with our earlier findings that LLMs learn from their context. Furthermore, for the stories generated by OPT and LLaMA, we see an average overlap of 30% with modern stories, which can be attributed to the fact that these models were trained on a dataset consisting of recent text. The stories generated by Alpaca have a slightly higher overlap with modern stories compared to Model Percentage overlap with Old stories Modern stories OPT-Line 34.82 34.21 OPT-256 31.37 28.88 OPT-512 32.49 29.89 LLaMA-Line 34.23 33.64 LLaMA-256 32.14 29.82 LLaMA-512 32.27 30.73 Alpaca: T-1 17.31 20.37 Alpaca: T-2 14.67 17.52 Alpaca: T-3 15.20