various quantitative and qualitative approaches to evaluate critical thinking [4, 5]. Via a quantitative approach, researchers develop standardized tests or instruments [8–10, 22]. In qualitative assessment, researchers such as open-ended questions and augmentative writing, as well as online discus- sion [20, 24]. Across these tools, some tend to measure critical disposition [8]—the tendency to think critically—whereas the others measure performance or application of critical thinking [22]. To examine the latter, Watson and Glaser [22] asks students to read scenarios of statements and arguments and make judgments on speciﬁc inferences, assumptions, deductions, conclusions based on each scenario. Since these traditional assessment are designed to evaluate individuals’ capabilities in situations where AI assistance is not present, we consider that they measure performed critical thinking. However, qualitative assessment could be used to measure demonstrated critical thinking if we evaluate individuals’ responses to open-ended questions and argumentative writing that are produced together with AI assistance. 3 EVALUATING THE IMPACT OF GENERATIVE AI ON PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING Recent research raises questions about how generative AI aﬀects individuals’ critical thinking abilities [3, 11, 12, 15]. Current research often conﬂates performed and demonstrated critical thinking by primarily assessing the latter rather than the former. For example, recent studies that suggest the use of GenAI improves critical thinking evaluate only Manuscript submitted to ACM Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Thinking 3 Table 1. Cognitive activities defined in Bloom’s taxonomy [2, 15]. Cognitive activity Description Knowledge Recognition or recall of ideas, material, or phenomena Comprehension Organising, summarising, translating, generalising, giving descriptions, and stating the main ideas Application Using acquired knowledge to solve problems in new situations Analysis Examining and breaking information into component parts, determining how the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or causes, making infer- ences, and ﬁnding evidence to support generalisations Synthesis Building a structure or pattern from diverse elements; putting parts together to form a whole or bringing pieces of information together to form a new mean- ing Evaluation Presenting and defending opinions by making judgements about information, the validity of ideas, or quality of work based on a set of criteria the ﬁnal outputs (e.g., written responses) that participants produce with AI assistance [3, 12]. Such methodologies fail to measure whether individuals’ performed critical thinking has improved. We encourage future research to adopt methodologies that can distinctly evaluate both forms of critical thinking. To robustly assess the impact of AI on criti- cal thinking abilities, researchers should implement study designs that assess participants’ performed critical thinking. For example, several studies have used quasi-experiments or interventions to evaluate whether the usage of ChatGPT impacts students’ critical thinking abilities where students’ critical thinking is assessed before and after the interven- tions Alarcón-López et al. [1], Liu and Wang [16]. Cui and Zhao [4] conduct a qualitative assessment of students’ dialogue in a classroom setting. Future research should also consider longitudinal frameworks that track changes in independent cognitive abilities over time. 4 AUGMENTING PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING Designing