languages within a multilingual context. Dataset The dataset we used for this study is the translated version of Arabic from XNLI cor- pus (Conneau et al., 2018). For the annotation, 250 English sentences were selected from ten different sources and then asked the annotators to produce three hypotheses per sentence premise. The result- ing premises and hypotheses are then translated into 15 languages and we used the Arabic version for this study. A.9 Question Answering (QA) This task involves answering questions in Arabic based on a given text22. For this task, we use four different datasets consisting of (passage, question, and answer) pairs. Datasets ARCD consists of 1,395 Arabic MSA questions posed by crowd-sourced workers along with the text segments from Arabic Wikipedia. We use the test set only for our evaluation. The test set consists of 78 articles, 234 paragraphs, and 702 questions (Mozannar et al., 2019). MLQA comprises multilingual question-answer instances in 7 languages, English, Arabic, Simpli- fied Chinese, Hindi, German, Vietnamese and Span- ish. We used the Arabic QA pairs from this dataset, which consist of 2389 articles, 4646 paragraphs, and 5335 questions (Lewis et al., 2020). TyDi QA comprises 11 languages with 204K question-answer pairs. We used the data provided for the Gold Passage task in which a passage that contains the answer is provided and the task is to predict the span that contains the answer. We used the Arabic split of the data which contains 921 ar- ticles, 921 paragraphs and 921 questions (Artetxe et al., 2020). XQuAD comprises 240 paragraphs and 1190 question-answers pairs from the development set of SQuAD v1.1 with their professional translations into ten languages. Hindi, Turkish, Arabic, Viet- namese, Thai, German, Greek, Russian, Spanish and Chinese. We use the the Arabic split of the data which consists of 48 articles, 240 paragraphs, and 1190 questions (Artetxe et al., 2020). We used the sQuad version of all datasets along with the official squad evaluation script. A.10 Speech Processing For this study, we address the speech modalities in the context of large foundation models, and we 22This task is also referred to as machine reading compre- hension where the model is tested on its ability to extract answers from the given text evaluate the following two tasks in this edition: (i) automatic speech recognition (ASR); and (ii) text to speech (TTS) models. In future, we will scale the speech benchmark with speech translation (ST) and spoken Arabic dialect identification spoken (ADI). A.10.1 Speech Recognition The primary objective of an ASR system is to trans- form spoken language into written text. The task itself is challenging due to the presence of vari- ability in human speech, which can be affected by factors such as accent, speaking style, code- switching, environmental factors like channels, and background noise among others. Furthermore, the presence of language-related challenges, including complex morphology, unstandardized orthography, and a wide array of dialects as a primary mode of communication, adds a layer of complexity to the task. Therefore to properly