cj θ ) = X ci log[1+ X cj≺ci exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ )] (20) τ j i = rci −rcj > 0, τ max i = max cj≺ci τ j i (21) where rc is the score of c given by a reward model. τ j i is the dynamic temperature for score scj θ . We compute the gradient with respect to the parameters θ: ∇θLP RO = − X ci P cj≺ci[τ max i exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ )∇θsci θ −τ j i exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ )∇θs cj θ ] 1 + P cj≺ci exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ ) (22) 17 Preprint Methods PRO PRO (remove τ) PRO + RDC1 PRO (remove τ) + RDC1 Accuracy 18.73±0.31 7.18±0.78 25.84±0.48 25.43±0.98 Table 10: The importance of dynamic temperature of PRO. “remove τ” denotes remove the dynamic temperature term, i.e., τ j j and τ max i from PRO. “+RDC1” denotes add our ranking detach technical (Equation 12). Based on ∇θLP RO, we can see that for each pair (ci, cj), LP RO will decrease scj θ with the dynamic gradient weight: DGWj i = τ j i exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ ) 1 + P cj≺ci exp(τ j i s cj θ −τ max i sci θ ) , (23) which may harm the model’s performance. However, the dynamic gradient weight that is computed based on the reward is more reasonable than the constant value of 1 used in RRHF, and thus PRO outperforms RRHF. Specifically, when there is a substantial reward gap between higher-quality and lower-quality, indicated by a large value τ j i . It is reasonable to increase the penalty for negative example scores (large DGWj i), and vice versa. To demonstrate this, we remove the dynamic temperature term, i.e., τ j j and τ max i , from PRO. As shown in Table 10, we can see that PRO significantly outperforms PRO (remove τ) when there is no constraint. However, the performance gap shrinks when adding our detached constraint. These results indicate: 1) To a certain extent, the dynamic temperature’s effectiveness stems from its ability to make PRO reduce the negative score in a more reasonable manner. 2) The dynamic temperature is useful to prevent model degradation but is not good enough. D.4 SUMMARY Our analysis reveals that previous ranking-based alignment works have some limitations: 1) Although their methods consist of some strategies to prevent model degradation (i.e., using a scaling factor to reduce gradient weight for DPO, setting the loss to 0 for RRHF, and incorporating a dynamic temperature for PRO), they do not recognize the importance of constraints for ranking-based alignment methods in their papers. 2) Their strategies essentially involve diminishing the gradient weight’s magnitude, which is proven to be insufficient (at least in the reasoning