film chronicles the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer, a theoretical physicist who was pivotal in developing the first nuclear weapons as part of the Man- hattan Project, and thereby ushering in the Atomic Age. Cillian Murphy stars as Oppenheimer, with Emily Blunt as Oppenheimer’s wife Katherine "Kitty" Oppenheimer. High Faithfulness: Christopher Nolan directed the film Oppen- heimer. Cillian Murphy stars as J. Robert Oppenheimer in the film. Low Faithfulness: James Cameron directed the film Op- penheimer. Tom Cruise stars as J. Robert Oppenheimer in the film. Table 2: Example from WikiEval, showing answers with high and low faithfulness. Question Answer When is the scheduled launch date and time for the PSLV-C56 mission, and where will it be launched from? High answer relevance: The PSLV-C56 mission is scheduled to be launched on Sunday, 30 July 2023 at 06:30 IST / 01:00 UTC. It will be launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh, India. Low answer relevance: The scheduled launch date and time for the PSLV-C56 mission have not been provided.The PSLV-C56 mission is an important space mission for India. It aims to launch a satellite into orbit to study weather patterns. Table 3: Example from WikiEval, showing answers with high and low answer relevance. Question Context When was the Chimnabai Clock Tower completed, and who was it named af- ter? High context relevance: The Chimnabai Clock Tower, also known as the Raopura Tower, is a clock tower situated in the Raopura area of Vadodara, Gujarat, India. It was completed in 1896 and named in memory of Chimnabai I (1864–1885), a queen and the first wife of Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda State. Low context relevance: The Chimnabai Clock Tower, also known as the Raopura Tower, is a clock tower situated in the Raopura area of Vadodara, Gujarat, India. It was completed in 1896 and named in memory of Chimnabai I (1864–1885), a queen and the first wife of Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda State. It was built in Indo-Saracenic architecture style. History. Chimnabai Clock Tower was built in 1896. The tower was named after Chimnabai I (1864–1885), a queen and the first wife of Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda State. It was inaugurated by Mir Kamaluddin Hussainkhan, the last Nawab of Baroda. During the rule of Gaekwad, it was a stoppage for horse drawn trams. The clock tower was erected at the cost of 25,000 (equivalent to 9.2 million or USD 120,000 in 2023). Table 4: Example from WikiEval, showing answers with high and low context relevance.