process. Through the above steps, we ultimately obtain a complete KG G=(V,E) and entities vector database 𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵. Given a query 𝑞, the entity mapping module first employs predefined prompt templates to extract potential entities 𝑒𝑝 from the original query. Then, we calculate the similarity between 𝑒𝑝and each entity 𝑒𝑖∈𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵to identify the most semantically similar entity. Through this process, the module maps 𝑒𝑝to the most relevant existing entity 𝑒𝑡∈𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵 within the KG. sim(𝑒𝑝, 𝑒𝑖) = 𝑒𝑝⋅𝑒𝑖 ‖𝑒𝑝‖‖𝑒𝑖‖, ∀𝑒𝑖∈𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑉𝐵 (2) 3.2. Subgraph Construction To fully leverage the contextual information associated with each entity, we design a multi-path subgraph construc- tion algorithm. This algorithm integrates one-hop relations, multi-hop relations, and community-level entities based on personalized PageRank. The overall process is illustrated in Fig. 1. One-hop relations: Given the identified truth entity 𝑒𝑡, we first construct its one-hop neighbor set 1(𝑒𝑡), defined as {𝑣∈𝑉∣(𝑒𝑡, 𝑣) ∈𝐸}. Within this set, we compute the semantic similarity between 𝑒𝑡and each neighboring entity 𝑒𝑖∈1(𝑒𝑡), and select the top-𝐾most relevant nodes. The resulting one-hop subgraph is defined as: Subkgonehop = top𝐾 (sim(𝑒𝑡, 𝑒𝑖)) , 𝑒𝑖∈1(𝑒𝑡) (3) where sim(⋅) denotes the similarity computation function, and top(⋅) refers to selecting the top-𝐾entities from a set. We select 𝐾one-hop neighbors of the target entity to enrich its representation by leveraging the contextual information provided by its immediate neighbors. Multi-hop relations: We select the two most relevant entities 𝑒𝑜∈𝑁1(𝑒𝑡) from the one-hop neighbors to per- form multi-hop entity expansion. Specifically, we construct Q. Wei et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier Page 4 of 13 Leveraging social media news a multi-hop entity set 𝑁𝑀= { 𝑣∈𝑉∣(𝑒𝑜, 𝑣) ∈𝐸}, and then select the top-𝐾most relevant nodes from this set to obtain the multi-hop subgraph, denoted as Subkgmulhop. Importance-based relations: In the importance scoring module, we employ the PageRank algorithm to quantify the relative importance of different components within the community. We first construct a personalized vector 𝑝in accordance with Eq. (4). 𝑝(𝑣) = { 1, if 𝑣= 𝑒𝑡 0, otherwise (4) By iteratively applying Eq. (5), we compute the PageR- ank score 𝑆(𝑣) for each node 𝑣: 𝑆(𝑡+1)(𝑣) = (1−𝑑)⋅𝑝(𝑣)+𝑑 ∑ 𝑢∈In(𝑣) 𝑤𝑢𝑣 ∑ 𝑘∈Out(𝑢) 𝑤𝑢𝑘 𝑆(𝑡)(𝑢) (5) where 𝑑is the damping factor (commonly set to 0.85), 𝐼𝑛(𝑣) denotes the set of all nodes pointing to 𝑣, 𝑂𝑢𝑡(𝑢) denotes the set of all nodes pointed to by node 𝑢, and 𝑤𝑢𝑣, 𝑤𝑢𝑘denote the weights of the respective edges. We sort the nodes in descending order according to their PageRank scores 𝑆(𝑣), and select the top k nodes to obtain the subgraph 𝑆𝑢𝑏𝑘𝑔𝑃𝑅. 3.3. Subgraph Fusion In the subgraph fusion module, we primarily accomplish two tasks: scoring the subgraphs using a query-aware atten- tion reward model, and integrating the other subgraphs into the highest-scoring subgraph. First, based on the three KG subgraphs constructed using the multi-path algorithm, we employ LLMs to score the dataset in terms of KG richness, question relevance, and connectivity. The scores assigned by the LLMs are used as training data to train query-aware attention reward model (RM). To incorporate the semantic information