no_CoT (beam) “Q: What is the most appropriate group of captions for the <context>? Answer choices: (A) <captions for image 1> (B) <captions for image 2> ... A: ” Table 2: QA prompts for gpt-3.5-turbo containing given phrase and extracted image captions. ing Manhattan distance as a similarity measure. ALIGN and XLM distilroberta base (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) perform the caption-phrase re- trieval, representing textual representations via VL models and purely linguistic semantic similarity models respectively. More text-to-text retrieval re- sults in Appendix D. The No-LLM row of Tab. 4 refers to the case that no phrase enhancement is performed, while the rest of the cases correspond to prompts designed as per Tab. 1 towards en- hanced phrases te. In all results presented, GPT-3 is selected as the LLM to be prompted, as it demon- strated superior knowledge-enhancement perfor- mance. We observe that LLM-based enhancement offers performance boosts to text-to-text retrieval compared to the No-LLM baseline in most cases; nevertheless, it still stays behind the best perfor- mance so far (acc 72.57%, MRR 82.29%) achieved by GPT-3-enhanced VL retrieval. We assume this is because of the information loss induced when converting from the visual to the textual modality during captioning. Another observation is that VL transformers perform better in producing textual embeddings compared to sentence similarity embeddings, even though the latter have been explicitly fine-tuned on semantic textual similarity. This observation is cross-validated by examining more purely textual semantic similarity transformers in Appendix D. Wikipedia & Wikidata image retrieval In Tab. 5 results regarding image-to-image retrieval be- tween candidates i and web retrieved images iw are presented. Out of the 463 samples of the test set, Wikipedia API and Wikidata API returned re- sults for 460 and 324 phrases respectively. Even best results for image-to-image retrieval are not competent against our previous approaches; we assume that exclusively visual representations are not expressive enough to distinguish fine-grained details between semantically related candidates. Learn to rank In Tab. 6 we exhibit results using ALIGN as the VL retriever. The presented feature combinations involve the following: (1) Baseline features: the choice for incorporation (or not) of penalty p(i) in score(t, i) for the VL retrieval; (2) LLM-enhancement features: the prompt to produce enhanced phrases te (or an ensemble of prompts leading to multiple te) and the choice for incorpora- tion (or not) of p(i) in score(te, i); (3) Text retrieval features: the captioner to generate ci, together with the text embedding model and the similarity mea- sure (cosine/euclidean/manhattan) for text-to-text retrieval, as well as the phrase (original t, or en- hanced te, or an ensemble of enhanced phrases te derived from different LLMs); (4) Image retrieval features: image embedding model and similarity measure (cosine/euclidean/manhattan) for image- to-image retrieval. Additional results for the LTR are provided in Appendix E. For all the experiments of Tab. 6 we used the following hyperparameter configuration: n_estimators: 500, early_stopping: 100, learning rate: 0.03, feature_fraction: 0.25, max_bin: 100, min_child_samples: 50 and reg_alpha: 0.05. An 80-20 train/validation split was followed,