THaMES: An End-to-End Tool for Hallucination Mitigation and Evaluation in Large Language Models Mengfei Liang2∗, Archish Arun1,3∗, Zekun Wu1,2†, Cristian Munoz1 Jonathan Lutch1,3, Emre Kazim1, Adriano Koshiyama1, Philip Treleaven2† 1Holistic AI, 2University College London, 3Stanford University Abstract Hallucination, the generation of factually incorrect and confabulated content, is a rising issue in the realm of Large Language Models (LLMs). While hallucination detection and mitigation methods exist, they are largely isolated and often inade- quate for domain-specific use cases. There is no standardized pipeline combining the necessary components of domain-pertinent dataset generation, hallucination de- tection benchmarking, and mitigation strategies into one tool. This paper proposes the THaMES framework and library 3—a Tool for Hallucination Mitigations and EvaluationS. THaMES is an end-to-end solution that evaluates and mitigates hallucinations in LLMs through automated testset generation, multifaceted bench- marking techniques, and flexible mitigation strategies. The THaMES framework is capable of automating testset generation from any corpus of information while achieving high data quality and diversity, maintaining cost-effectiveness through batch processing, weighted sampling, counterfactual validation, and the usage of complex question types. THaMES can also evaluate a model’s capability to identify hallucinations and generate less hallucinated outputs across multiple types of evalu- ation tasks, including text generation and binary classification. The framework also applies optimal hallucination mitigation strategies tailored to different models and knowledge bases. THaMES contains a variety of hallucination mitigation strategies, including In-Context Learning (ICL), Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), and Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning (PEFT). Evaluating a variety of state-of-the- art LLMs using a knowledge base consisting of academic papers, political news articles, and Wikipedia articles, we find that commercial models such as GPT-4o benefit more from RAG strategies than ICL, and that while open weight models such as Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct and Mistral-Nemo also show improvements with RAG mitigations, they benefit more from the reasoning provided by ICL. In an experiment with open weight model Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct, the PEFT mitigation significantly improved over the base model in aspects of both evaluation tasks. 1 Introduction and Related Work In the development of large language models (LLMs), one persistent issue is hallucination—the generation of outputs which sound plausible but are factually incorrect or unverifiable [Ji et al., 2023]. Research categorizes hallucinations into two types: factuality and faithfulness hallucinations [Huang et al., 2023], which arise from sources such as training data, the model’s internal training ∗Equal Contributions. †Corresponding Author: p.treleaven@ucl.ac.uk, zekun.wu@holisticai.com 3The library is available at https://github.com/holistic-ai/THaMES. 38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024). arXiv:2409.11353v3 [cs.CL] 30 Nov 2024 Figure 1: System Diagram of the THaMES Framework, including QA set generation, hallucination benchmarking, and mitigation strategies. mechanisms, or inference-time biases. THaMES focuses on question-answering (QA) tasks to capture and evaluate these hallucination types. Although progress has been made with hallucination benchmarks [Li et al., 2023, Lin et al., 2022] and mitigation strategies [Lewis et al., 2021, Dhuliawala et al., 2023], most studies address specific aspects of the issue without offering a holistic solution. Existing testsets such as those provided by HaluEval [Li et al., 2023] and DelucionQA [Sadat et