CLASSIFYING GERMAN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY LEVELS USING LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS Elias-Leander Ahlers Computer Science Department University of M¨unster M¨unster, Germany elias.ahlers@uni-muenster.de Witold Brunsmann Computer Science Department University of M¨unster M¨unster, Germany witold.brunsmann@uni-muenster.de Malte Schilling Computer Science Department University of M¨unster M¨unster, Germany malte.schilling@uni-muenster.de ABSTRACT Assessing language proficiency is essential for education, as it enables instruction tailored to learners needs. This paper investigates the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automatically clas- sifying German texts according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) into different proficiency levels. To support robust training and evaluation, we construct a diverse dataset by combining multiple existing CEFR-annotated corpora with synthetic data. We then evaluate prompt-engineering strategies, fine-tuning of a LLaMA-3-8B-Instruct model and a probing-based approach that utilizes the internal neural state of the LLM for classification. Our re- sults show a consistent performance improvement over prior methods, highlighting the potential of LLMs for reliable and scalable CEFR classification. 1 Introduction Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT, LLaMA, and Gemini have demonstrated impressive capabilities in processing and generating human-like text (Minaee et al., 2025). They are now broadly used, for example, as chatbots, for providing customer support (Xu et al., 2024) or as tutoring systems (Kahl et al., 2024). However, their use as specialized classifiers for complex, fine-grained tasks remains underexplored. One such task is the classification of language proficiency levels as, for example, defined by the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). The CEFR framework defines six proficiency levels (A1–C2), each reflecting distinct linguistic capabilities. Accurate classification into these levels requires models to capture subtle differences in vocabulary, grammar, and discourse. Traditional approaches for CEFR classification rely on manually engineered features and classical machine learning methods such as SVMs or neural networks (Caines and Buttery, 2020; Szu¨ugyi et al., 2019). While effective to a certain degree, these methods have shown to be labor-intensive and often limited in scalability. This paper investigates whether LLMs can serve as effective alternatives for CEFR classification. We approach this through systematically evaluating and comparing different strategies that employ LLMs, using prompt engineering, fine-tuning, and a probing based classifier. Prompt engineering explores how the phrasing of model instructions affects performance. Fine-tuning adapts a pre-trained model to the specific classification task. The probing based approach extracts the internal neural state of the Large Language Model of the last layer and utilizes this as an input for a neural network based classifier which is trained in a supervised fashion on a subset of the dataset. arXiv:2512.06483v1 [cs.CL] 6 Dec 2025 A challenge lies in the lack of a comprehensive, balanced dataset for German CEFR classification. Existing corpora often focus on selected levels (e.g., A2–B2) or lack standardized labeling. To address this, we, as a first contribution, develop a new dataset by combining established corpora with synthetic data generation. This allows us to achieve a balanced distribution across the different CEFR levels (A1–C2) which enables a more reliable evaluation of clas- sification strategies. Our experiments show that using