Finally, we examine the implications of deploying these systems in production, with a particular focus on the challenges of human-artiﬁcial intelligence collaboration, to promote the development of robust, reliable, and compliant AI solutions across various industries. The paper concludes with a summary of our ﬁndings. 2 Related Work Prior to LLMs, the approaches to retrieval of information from unstructured text included statistical and machine learning-based approaches. Examples of statistical approaches include bag-of-words and term frequency-inverse doc- ument frequency (TF-IDF) [15]. For instance, the TF-IDF approach has been used for extracting ontological data from unstructured text [16]. On the other hand, machine learning approaches are based on generating word embeddings such as WORD2VEC [17], which captures the idea of similarity between words within documents. Recently, new technologies have emerged, such as large language models that generate new text and embeddings from existing documents. Although very promising in their capabilities, these models can suffer from hallucinations, generating responses that are not grounded in facts. LLMs come up with their responses mainly based on next-word probability [18]. These hallucinatory tendencies impede the application of LLMs to mainstream industry applications because of obvious questions about the reliability and robustness of their responses [19] [20]. To address this, a lot of research has been published that suggests a variety of approaches which are summarized in table 1 Figure 1 provides an overview of the LLM landscape highlighting the use of both proprietary (A) and public (B) documents. An LLM is typically trained on vast amounts of public data but can be customized by additional training on proprietary documents (using full or parameter-efﬁcient ﬁne-tuning). There could even be an overlap between proprietary and public documents (A ∩B) if private documents are released or public documents are retracted. Of course, the documents generated by an LLM can be re-cycled as training data as well. Using an LLM involves prompt engineering with or without examples, which can be drawn from seen or unseen documents. Several possible approaches to reduce hallucinations are outlined below. • Full ﬁne-tuning: The pre-trained LLM understands the basic language construct, but it is not adapted for domain-speciﬁc context and vocabulary. This approach basically modiﬁes the LLM’s weights to adopt the context from the domain-speciﬁc dataset. It is one of the oldest approaches for domain-speciﬁc tuning of an LLM. • Parameter-efﬁcient ﬁne-tuning: In this approach, the LLM is ﬁne-tuned by modifying only a small number of parameters [2] [4] rather than all of them, as in the case of full ﬁne-tuning. This approach reduces the load with respect to computations, memory use and execution time. • Prompt engineering: Prompt engineering is an approach where the LLM is given instructions to generate a certain response. Different approaches have been shown to enhance the quality of responses generated using prompt engineering. Some of them include zero-shot prompting [6], where the model is given only instructions but no examples, few-shot prompting where the model is given instructions and a few examples 2 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval