standard reinforcement learning environments. Nonetheless, the conceptual foundations of value learning still manifest in LLM reinforcement learning. For instance, Wang et al. [172] adopted a Q-learning-based framework to dynamically select in-context exemplars. By computing a Manuscript submitted to ACM 10 Keliang Liu et al. diversity score over label distributions among selected demonstrations, the framework jointly maximizes both diversity and task relevance, effectively guiding LLMs to generate more informative references for text classification. 3 Reinforcement Learning Methods in the Pre-training Phase and Alignment Phase 3.1 Reinforcement Learning Methods in the Pre-training Phase Most current reinforcement learning enabled tasks for LLMs are mainly focused on the alignment and fine-tuning phases of the models. However, Dong et al. [31] reconstructed the next-token prediction task in pre-training into an RL-based reasoning task, allowing the model to obtain verifiable rewards when correctly predicting the next token in a given context, thereby introducing reinforcement learning into pre-training tasks. Nevertheless, this method consumes excessive resources and requires an excellent model with existing reasoning capabilities as the base model for training. Ghosh et al. [45] introduced RL into visual pre-training with Annotation Bootstrapping, framing unlabeled image pre-training as an RL problem and arguing that common self-supervised methods like crop-consistency resemble value learning. OctoThinker [181] proposed to significantly improve the compatibility of basic language models with reinforcement learning through a two-stage mid-training strategy, enabling the Llama series, which was originally unsuitable for RL, to reach the same level as Qwen in mathematical reasoning tasks. It reveals the key role of mid-training data quality, style, and scheduling strategies in RL scaling. Mid-training refers to self-supervised training conducted in the same way as pre-training, i.e., through next-word prediction, but with a different goal. The goal of mid-training is to transform the pre-trained model to make it suitable for RL training, and the training data is converted from massive amounts of text to high-quality, task-related data. 3.2 Classic Algorithms in the Alignment Phase Christiano et al. [129] established a foundational paradigm for modern LLM alignment, demonstrating that incorporating human preferences into fine-tuning significantly improves the helpfulness and safety of instruction following behaviour. Bai et al. [6] found that RLHF-based alignment training enhances performance across nearly all NLP evaluation tasks and is fully compatible with domain-specific skills such as Python programming and summarisation. Xiong et al. [196] reinterpreted RLHF from an information theoretic perspective, proposing an iterative optimization framework that controls alignment bias via KL regularization and drives data acquisition based on uncertainty estimates. SPO [157] modeled human preference as a minimax winner in a zero-sum game and directly optimized the policy through self-play, providing theoretical guarantees of robust convergence under non-transitive, non-Markovian, and stochastic preferences. Wang, Fu, and Miao et al. [41, 121, 122, 168] explored methods for mitigating the issue of reward hacking. Bai et al. [7] proposed Constitutional AI, a framework in which artificial intelligence systems supervise other AI agents to train a harmless assistant through self-improvement without relying on human-labelled data identifying harmful outputs. The only human oversight is