128 A100 GPUs for 16 hours and 4 A100 GPUs for 12 hours, re- spectively. We therefore include ColBERT as a representative baseline for fairness, noting that such tuning-based methods are often impractical for large-scale deployment due to their prohibitive training and indexing costs. Details of all baselines are provided in our technical report [40]. In addition, we remove the configuration agent from our method as a baseline to evaluate its impact on the performance of CARROT, referring to this version as CARROT w/o Agent. Finally, we implement a method called CARROT Upper to establish an upper bound by enumerating all possible chunk combinations within the top-5 chunk candidates and selecting the optimal chunk combination order. We adopt Llama3- 8B [61] as the default large language model for these methods. Hyper-parameter Settings. The hyper-parameters for CAR- ROT are automatically determined by the configuration agent, while NaiveRAG does not require hyper-parameters. For other baseline methods, we ensure consistency by using identical hyper-parameters for fair comparisons. Specifically, we set the exploration coefficient to 2.4, the number of iterations to 10, and the cost coefficient λ to 0.1. Due to the computational constraints imposed by combinatorial complexity, we set the candidate chunks to 5 in the CARROT Upper case. By default, we set the fixed chunk size to 256 and the budget to 1024 for fair ablation studies. For offline data collection, we sample 1K seed queries from three datasets and perform grid search over 6 rerankers with 20 parameter combinations per query. Learning Setting. In our method, the configuration agent is trained using contrastive learning. The hyper-parameters used during this process include a margin for contrastive loss (margin=1.0), learning rate (lr=0.001), batch size (32), number of epochs (num epochs=60), and the embedding model (i.e., BAAI/bge-m3 [54]). Evaluation Metrics. Following [12], [14], [15], we utilize ROUGE-1, ROUGE-L [62], and BLEU-1 [63] for single- hop retrieval tasks, and F1 score [64] for multi-hop retrieval scenarios. To evaluate efficiency, we measure the retrieval latency across different methods. B. Performance Comparison 1) RQ1-(1): Effectiveness Comparison Across Datasets and Chunk Sizes: As shown in Table II, we evaluate the ef- fectiveness of CARROT compared to various baselines on three datasets: WikiPassageQA, MARCO, and HotpotQA. The first two are single-hop datasets, while the last is a multi- hop dataset. For methods that support token-level budget constraints (e.g., RAPTOR, NaiveRAG, and HYDE), we fix the token budget to 1024. For other methods, we report results without budget limitations. To ensure fairness, all methods are built upon Llama3-8B. The experimental results lead to the following observations: (1) CARROT consistently outperforms all baselines across different datasets. Specifically, it achieves about 30% relative gain on both single-hop and multi-hop tasks. As expected, it does not surpass the CARROT upper, which represents a nearly exhaustive search over chunk combinations. TABLE II: Effectiveness Comparison and Token Cost Across Datasets (All methods are built upon Llama3-8B. Best in bold, second-best underlined). On.=Average online token cost (per-query). WikiPassageQA MARCO HotpotQA Method 256 512 1024 On.↓ 256