where the model predicts each answer token xi based only on the question and the previously generated tokens. In contrast, RAG-style fine-tuning conditions the generation not only on the question but also on the relevant passages as context: LRAG Fine-tuning = − n X i=1 log pθ(xi | [q, c; x<i]), where c is the relevant passage retrieved from an external corpus. By incorporating c as an additional context, the model is encouraged to utilize external knowledge when generating answers. This strategy improves the model’s ability to ground its responses in retrieved evidence, lead- ing to more accurate and contextually appropriate answers. During RAG fine-tuning, we used gold passages with high relevance to the answers, ensuring the model learns to ef- fectively utilize contextual information. 4. DATASET 4.1 MusWikiDB To address the lack of a music-specific vector database for RAG in MQA, we developed MusWikiDB. We be- gan by collecting music-related content from Wikipedia across seven categories: artists, genres, instruments, his- tory, technology, theory, and forms. These categories were selected to cover a broad spectrum of music knowledge, providing a well-rounded foundation for answering music- related questions. The data was collected with a page depth of 2, which allowed us to capture detailed subtopics and re- lated information. We split the content into sections such as background, biography, and history. We then removed sections shorter than 60 tokens to ensure the remaining text had enough context for meaningful retrieval. Table 1 compares our proposed MusWikiDB with the Wikipedia corpus [8]. While MusWikiDB contains fewer pages (31K vs 3.2M) and has a smaller vocabulary size (786K vs 21.5M), it consists exclusively of music- specialized text information. MusWikiDB Wikipedia Corpus [8] # Pages 31K 3.2M # Passages 629.2K 21M Total tokens 65.5M 2.1B Vocab Size 786K 21.5M Table 1: MusWikiDB and Wikipedia Corpus [8] statistics. Based on the ablation study in Section 6.3, the text was then split into segments of up to 128 tokens, with a 10% overlap between adjacent passages, to preserve con- text between passages. For embedding, we employed BM25 [16], a classical and highly effective algorithm for ranking text relevance, which helped build an efficient in- dex for MusWikiDB. This allowed us to quickly retrieve relevant information during RAG-based inference, improv- ing the accuracy and relevance of answers. The resulting MusWikiDB provides a scalable, up-to-date knowledge base that enhances the performance of RAG in MQA tasks, allowing the system to answer complex, domain-specific music-related questions with more accuracy and context. 4.2 ArtistMus The existing text-only MQA benchmarks have focused on multimodal music understanding [11, 12] or musicology topics such as melody, chords, and history [12, 13]. How- ever, there has been no benchmark that focuses on mu- sic metadata, particularly the artist, which is crucial in music listening contexts [30, 31]. Therefore, we created the ArtistMus to test the performance of LLMs in artist- related QA, using artist-related data from MusWikiDB. We grouped sections into five categories: biography, career, discography, artistry, and collaborations. Token lengths ranging from 500