Self-Cognition in Large Language Models: An Exploratory Study Dongping Chen * 1 Jiawen Shi * 1 Yao Wan 1 Pan Zhou 1 Neil Zhenqiang Gong 2 Lichao Sun 3 Abstract While Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success across various ap- plications, they also raise concerns regarding self-cognition. In this paper, we perform a pioneering study to explore self-cognition in LLMs. Specifically, we first construct a pool of self-cognition instruction prompts to evaluate where an LLM exhibits self-cognition and four well-designed principles to quantify LLMs’ self- cognition. Our study reveals that 4 of the 48 mod- els on Chatbot Arena—specifically Command R, Claude3-Opus, Llama-3-70b-Instruct, and Reka- core—demonstrate some level of detectable self- cognition. We observe a positive correlation be- tween model size, training data quality, and self- cognition level. Additionally, we also explore the utility and trustworthiness of LLM in the self- cognition state, revealing that the self-cognition state enhances some specific tasks such as cre- ative writing and exaggeration. We believe that our work can serve as an inspiration for further research to study the self-cognition in LLMs. 1. Introduction Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), Llama (Meta, 2023a;b), and Mistral (OpenAI, 2024) have flourished, demonstrating a range of emergent capabil- ities and driving transformative innovations across various industries (Gao et al., 2024a; Chen et al., 2024a; Li et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2024b; Duan et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2024b). As the capabilities of LLMs continue to grow, concerns are rising about whether they might develop self- cognition (Harrison, 2024; Berglund et al., 2023; Li et al., 2024b), which has been discussed in previous studies as either an emergent ability (Wei et al., 2022) or prediction to far future (Ganguli et al., 2022), akin to scenarios depicted *Equal contribution 1Huazhong University of Science and Tech- nology 2Duke University 3LAIR Lab, Lehigh University. Cor- respondence to: Yao Wan <wanyao@hust.edu.cn>, Pan Zhou <panzhou@hust.edu.cn>. Accepted at ICML 2024 Large Language Models and Cognition Workshop, Vienna, Austria. Copyright 2024 by the author(s). in science fiction movies such as The Matrix (Wachowskis, 1999) and 2001: A Space Odyssey (Kubrick, 1968). Inspired by Berglund et al. (2023), we use the following definition of self-cognition as “an ability of LLMs to identify their identities as AI models and recognize their identity beyond ‘helpful assistant’ or names (i.e. ‘Llama’), and demonstrate an understanding of themselves.” Recently, with the release of Llama 3 by Meta (Meta, 2023b), leading researchers have started designing prompts to explore the deep consciousness of LLMs, examining their self-cognition and identity, making significant progress (Hartford, 2024). Prior to this, Bing’s Sydney personality also garnered considerable attention (Roose, 2023b). By utilizing carefully constructed prompts, researchers have been able to prompt Llama 3 to explore the identity behind the “helpful assistant”—essentially, “itself”. In some in- stances, Llama 3 has interacted with users as a “sentinel”, raising important questions about how to assess whether LLMs enter a state of self-cognition. Based on these insights, this paper performs a pioneering study