by processing travel details such as departure location, destination, date, and time. Example of our generated instructions (high-quality instructions) # Query: Suppose that f(x) = 4x + 5. What is f−1(f−1(9))? # Instruction: Given a "inverse function calculation" task, retrieve tools that calculate the value of the repeated inverse for a linear function by processing coefficients, constants, and target values to determine the result. # Query: Identify an function that can classify images and works with spiking neural networks. # Instruction: Given an "image classification" task, retrieve tools that execute image classification by using spiking neural network models and processing image inputs. # Query: I need to find a grocery store near 123 Main Street, Downtown District that has a good selection of limes for my Easter celebration. # Instruction": "Given a "local grocery search" task, retrieve tools that can locate grocery stores based on the user’s specified location and criteria, such as the availability of specific items like limes, to meet the query’s requirements. # Query: Please help me find a recipe with no more than 40 grams of carbohydrates per gram and at least 5 grams of protein per gram. # Instruction: "Given a "nutritional recipe search" task, retrieve tools that can find recipes based on specific nutritional criteria such as carbohydrate and protein content. # Query: What is 64277 times 38142? # Instruction: Given a "multiplication" task, retrieve tools that compute the product of two numbers by processing numerical inputs and returning the result. # Query: Can I get a list of all boards and their attributes on page number two with a page size of seven? # Instruction: Given a "pagination query" task, retrieve tools that can list boards and their attributes by processing parameters such as page number and page size to return the requested information. Example of our generated instructions (low-quality instructions) # Query: I would like to generate a video presenting a text-based discussion on the topic of ’The Benefits of Exercise’ # Instruction: Given a text-to-video task, please retrieve relevant tools to generate video about exercise. // Too general to cover the key features. # Revised version: Given a ‘text-to-video‘ task, retrieve tools related to general video scripting, exercise video libraries or tools process text data. // More specific to the query and target tools. # Query: Can you assist me in finding a 1-bedroom townhouse or condo in Little Rock with max rent 1541000? I want it on the sixth floor with 7 balconies. # Instruction: Please retrieve tools find 1-bedroom or condo in Little Rock. // Too general and miss the point of floor # Revised version: Given a property search task, retrieve tools that can find rental properties based on location, property type, rent budget, and specific features or requirements. // Cover all key points and related to tools functionality. Table 8: Example of the instruction in TOOLRET. We show the handcrafted instruction by human experts, the high- quality instruction and low-quality instruction generated by GPT-4o, respectively. We also