the proven method by Ye et al. (2023). The MMR method computes the similarity between a test ex- ample and the example pool (e.g., training dataset) and selects m examples (shots). We apply MMR on top of embeddings of multilingual sentence- transformers (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). In our few-shot investigation, we performed experi- ments on all tasks and datasets using only 3-shots to primarily reduce computational and API expenses. Additionally, we expanded our analysis to include 3, 5, and 10 instances across seven distinct datasets drawn from various task categories. More details are provided in Section C.2 of the Appendix. Prompts Design. Prompt design is a complex and iterative process that presents challenges due to the unknown representation of information within LLMs and a need for different types of outputs across tasks, e.g., token classification vs. sentence classification. The instructions expressed in our prompts were in English, including the content examples in Arabic. In Appendix D, we provide examples of prompts for different tasks, which are also released with the LLMeBench framework. We also examined Arabic instructions in our study, to understand the effect of native language prompts. For this set of experiments we selected seven datasets from seven different task groups. More details can be found in Section C.3 (Appendix). Post Processing. Outputs of LLMs are post- processed to enable automatic comparison with gold standard labels. Depending on the task, this may include mapping prefixes, or filtering tokens. For example, for POS tagging, the tags ‘prepo- sition’, ‘P’, ‘PRP’, ‘Qk. ¬Qk’, are mapped onto PREP. For NER, the model switches the tag of the prediction i.e., B-PER predicts as PER-B, and therefore requires remapping of the NER tags. 3.2 Models and Prompts for Speech Tasks We use zero- and few-shot settings to benchmark large speech models. For ASR, we use three Whis- per models (OpenAI) – small, medium, and large, and the USM model (Google). For the details of the models, see Table B.2 in Appendix. We compare these large models to SOTA: supervised QCRI- KANARI6 conformer-based (Chowdhury et al., 2021) offline and RNN-T based streaming ASR.7 For the TTS task, we compare two public systems: Amazon Polly TTS engine8 and QCRI-KANARI (Q-K) TTS (Abdelali et al., 2022) system.9 Zero-shot Setup. For zero-shot setup, we use the initial (or pre-trained) weights of Whisper and API of USM models with a goal to benchmark the per- formances of these LLMs in different domains, for different Arabic dialects, and for code-switching with no domain knowledge. As a prompt to the model, we passed only a language flag. Few-shot Setup. Under this setup, we fine-tune Whisper (small and large) with 2 hours of domain- 6https://fenek.ai/ 7https://arabicasr.kanari.ai/ 8https://aws.amazon.com/polly/ 9https://arabictts.kanari.ai/ specific speech data and compare it with the SOTA models trained from scratch with 3K hours of speech. ASR Post Processing. ASR is evaluated based on word error rate (WER) that aligns the model’s output with reference transcription and penalizes the output based on insertion, deletion, and sub- stitution errors. The measure is unable